--- PAGE 1 of p590a.pdf ---
Userid: CPM Schema: tipx Leadpct: 100% Pt. size: 10  Draft  Ok to Print
AH XSL/XML Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source (Init. & Date) _______
Page 1 of 62  10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 590-A
Contributions 
to Individual
Retirement
Arrangements
(IRAs)
For use in preparing
2025 Returns
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English) 
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) 
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文) 
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어) 
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский) 
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt) 
Contents
Future Developments ....................... 1
What’s New for 2025 ........................ 1
What’s New for 2026 ........................ 2
Reminders ............................... 2
Introduction .............................. 3
Chapter 1. Traditional IRAs .................. 6
Who Can Open a T raditional IRA?............ 6
When Can a T raditional IRA Be Opened?....... 7
How Can a T raditional IRA Be Opened?........ 7
How Much Can Be Contributed? ............. 9
When Can Contributions Be Made? .......... 10
How Much Can Y ou Deduct?............... 11
What if Y ou Inherit an IRA? ................ 21
Can Y ou Move Retirement Plan Assets?....... 21
When Can Y ou Withdraw or Use Assets?...... 31
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional 
T axes?............................. 33
Chapter 2. Roth IRAs ..................... 38
What Is a Roth IRA? ..................... 39
When Can a Roth IRA Be Opened? .......... 39
Can Y ou Contribute to a Roth IRA?........... 39
Can Y ou Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA?...... 44
Chapter 3. Retirement Savings Contributions 
Credit (Saver's Credit) .................. 46
How To Get Tax Help ....................... 48
Appendices ............................. 52
Index .................................. 60
Future Developments
For the latest information about developments related to 
Pub. 590 -A, such as legislation enacted after it was 
published, go to IRS.gov/Pub590A.
What’s New for 2025
IRA contribution limit for 2025.  For 2025, the IRA con-
tribution limit remains $7,000 ($8,000 for individuals age 
50 or older).
Trump account and new Form 4547. Recent legislation 
allows parents, guardians, and other authorized individu-
als to elect to establish a new type of individual retirement 
account, called a T rump account, for the exclusive benefit 
of certain children. If the child was born after 2024 and be-
fore 2029, is a U.S. citizen, and meets certain other re-
quirements, the authorized individual may also elect to re-
ceive a $1,000 pilot program contribution to the child’s 
T rump account. Both elections can be made on Form 
Publication 590-A (2025)  Catalog Number 66302J
Jan 15, 2026 Department of the T reasury  Internal Revenue Service  www.irs.gov

--- PAGE 2 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 2 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
4547, which can be filed at the same time as the author-
ized individual’s 2025 income tax return. For more infor-
mation on T rump accounts, and to learn how to make 
these elections, see Form 4547 and its instructions.
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions. 
For 2025, if you are covered by a retirement plan at work, 
your deduction for contributions to a traditional IRA is re-
duced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
• More than $126,000 but less than $146,000 for a mar-
ried couple filing a joint return or a qualifying surviving 
spouse,
• More than $79,000 but less than $89,000 for a single 
individual or head of household, or
• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a sep-
arate return.
Modified AGI limit for certain married individuals. 
If you are married and your spouse is covered by a retire-
ment plan at work and you aren’t, and you live with your 
spouse or file a joint return, your deduction is phased out if 
your modified AGI is more than $236,000 (up from 
$230,000 for 2024) but less than $246,000 (up from 
$240,000 for 2024). If your modified AGI is $246,000 or 
more, you can’t take a deduction for contributions to a tra-
ditional IRA.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions.  For 
2025, your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced (phased 
out) in the following situations.
• Y our filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying 
surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least 
$236,000. Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if 
your modified AGI is $246,000 or more.
• Y our filing status is single, head of household, or mar-
ried filing separately and you didn’t live with your 
spouse at any time in 2025 and your modified AGI is at 
least $150,000. Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA contribu-
tion if your modified AGI is $165,000 or more.
• Y our filing status is married filing separately, you lived 
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your 
modified AGI is more than zero. Y ou can’t make a Roth 
IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000 or 
more.
What’s New for 2026
IRA contribution limit increased for 2026.  Beginning 
in 2026, the IRA contribution limit is increased to $7,500 
($8,600 for individuals age 50 or older) from $7,000 
($8,000 for individuals age 50 or older).
Modified AGI limit for traditional IRA contributions in-
creased. For 2026, if you are covered by a retirement 
plan at work, your deduction for contributions to a tradi-
tional IRA is reduced (phased out) if your modified AGI is:
• More than $129,000 but less than $149,000 for a mar-
ried couple filing a joint return or a qualifying surviving 
spouse,
• More than $81,000 but less than $91,000 for a single 
individual or head of household, or
• Less than $10,000 for a married individual filing a sep-
arate return.
Modified AGI limit for certain married individuals 
increased. If you are married and your spouse is covered 
by a retirement plan at work and you aren’t, and you live 
with your spouse or file a joint return, your deduction is 
phased out if your modified AGI is more than $242,000 
(up from $236,000 for 2025) but less than $252,000 (up 
from $246,000 for 2025). If your modified AGI is $252,000 
or more, you can’t take a deduction for contributions to a 
traditional IRA.
Modified AGI limit for Roth IRA contributions in-
creased. For 2026, your Roth IRA contribution limit is re-
duced (phased out) in the following situations.
• Y our filing status is married filing jointly or qualifying 
surviving spouse and your modified AGI is at least 
$242,000. Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA contribution if 
your modified AGI is $252,0000 or more.
• Y our filing status is single, head of household, or mar-
ried filing separately and you didn’t live with your 
spouse at any time in 2026 and your modified AGI is at 
least $153,000. Y ou can’t make a Roth IRA contribu-
tion if your modified AGI is $168,000 or more.
• Y our filing status is married filing separately, you lived 
with your spouse at any time during the year, and your 
modified AGI is more than zero. Y ou can’t make a Roth 
IRA contribution if your modified AGI is $10,000 or 
more.
Reminders
Qualified tuition program rollover to a Roth IRA.  Be-
ginning with distributions made after December 31, 2023, 
a beneficiary of a section 529 qualified tuition program is 
permitted to roll over a distribution from a section 529 ac-
count into a Roth IRA for the beneficiary if certain require-
ments are met. See Qualified tuition program rollover to a 
Roth IRA, later.
Increase in required minimum distribution age.  Indi-
viduals who reach age 72 after December 31, 2022, may 
delay receiving their required minimum distributions 
(RMDs) until April 1 of the year following the year in which 
they turn age 73.
Qualified disaster tax relief.  The special rules that pro-
vide for tax-favored withdrawals and repayments from cer-
tain qualified plans for taxpayers who suffered an eco-
nomic loss as a result of a qualified disaster were made 
permanent by the SECURE 2.0 Act of 2022.
A qualified disaster is a major disaster that occurred on 
or after January 26, 2021, and was declared by the Presi-
dent after December 27, 2020, under section 401 of the 
Robert T . Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Act. For 
more information, see Disaster-Related Relief  in Pub. 
590-B, Distributions from Individual Retirement 
Arrangements (IRAs).
2 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 3 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 3 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Repayment of certain early distributions.  Contribu-
tions made to the eligible retirement plan as a repayment 
of emergency personal expense distributions, domestic 
abuse distributions, and terminal illness distributions may 
be eligible for tax -free rollover treatment. See Pub. 590 -B 
for more information.
Certain corrective distributions not subject to 10% 
additional tax.  Beginning on December 29, 2022, the 
10% additional tax on early distributions will not apply to a 
corrective IRA distribution, which consists of an excess 
contribution (a contribution greater than the IRA contribu-
tion limit) and any earnings allocable to the excess contri-
bution, as long as the corrective distribution is made on or 
before the due date (including extensions) of the income 
tax return.
Divorce or separation instruments after 2018. 
Amounts paid as alimony or separate maintenance pay-
ments under a divorce or separation instrument executed 
after 2018 won't be deductible by the payer. Such 
amounts also won't be includible in the income of the re-
cipient. The same is true of alimony paid under a divorce 
or separation instrument executed before 2019 and modi-
fied after 2018, if the modification expressly states that the 
alimony isn't deductible to the payer or includible in the in-
come of the recipient. For more information, see Pub. 504.
IRA interest.  Although interest earned from your IRA is 
generally not taxed in the year earned, it isn’t tax -exempt 
interest. T ax on your traditional IRA is generally deferred 
until you take a distribution. Don’t report this interest on 
your return as tax -exempt interest. For more information 
on tax-exempt interest, see the instructions for your tax re-
turn.
Photographs of missing children.  The IRS is a proud 
partner with the National Center for Missing & Exploited 
Children® (NCMEC). Photographs of missing children se-
lected by the Center may appear in this publication on pa-
ges that would otherwise be blank. Y ou can help bring 
these children home by looking at the photographs and 
calling 1 -800-THE-LOST (1 -800-843-5678) if you recog-
nize a child.
Introduction
This publication discusses contributions to individual re-
tirement arrangements (IRAs). An IRA is a personal sav-
ings plan that gives you tax advantages for setting aside 
money for retirement. For information about distributions 
(including rollovers) from an IRA, see Pub. 590-B.
What are some tax advantages of an IRA? T wo tax ad-
vantages of an IRA are that:
• Contributions you make to an IRA may be fully or parti-
ally deductible, depending on which type of IRA you 
have and on your circumstances; and
• Generally, amounts in your IRA (including earnings 
and gains) aren’t taxed until distributed. In some ca-
ses, amounts aren’t taxed at all if distributed according 
to the rules.
What's in this publication?  This publication discusses 
contributions to traditional and Roth IRAs. It explains the 
rules for:
• Setting up an IRA,
• Contributing to an IRA,
• T ransferring money or property to and from an IRA, 
and
• T aking a credit for contributions to an IRA.
It also explains the penalties and additional taxes that 
apply when the rules aren’t followed. T o assist you in com-
plying with the tax rules for IRAs, this publication contains 
worksheets and sample forms, which can be found 
throughout the publication and in the appendices at the 
end of the publication.
How to use this publication.  The rules that you must 
follow depend on which type of IRA you have. Use T able 
I-1 to help you determine which parts of this publication to 
read. Also use T able I-1 if you were referred to this publi-
cation from instructions to a form.
Comments and suggestions.  We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future 
editions.
Y ou can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or, you can write to the Internal Revenue 
Service, T ax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution 
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will 
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise 
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send 
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.
Getting answers to your tax questions.  If you have 
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How 
T o Get T ax Help section at the end of this publication, go 
to the IRS Interactive T ax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search 
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. 
Go to  IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior -year 
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications. 
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions, and publications; call 800 -829-3676 to order 
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process 
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible. 
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. Y ou can 
get forms and publications faster online.
Useful Items
Y ou may want to see:
Publications
505 T ax Withholding and Estimated T ax  505
Publication 590-A (2025) 3

--- PAGE 4 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 4 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
590-B Distributions from Individual Retirement 
Arrangements (IRAs)
560 Retirement Plans for Small Business (SEP , 
SIMPLE, and Qualified Plans)
571 T ax-Sheltered Annuity Plans (403(b) Plans)
575 Pension and Annuity Income
939 General Rule for Pensions and Annuities
Forms (and Instructions)
W-4P Withholding Certificate for Pension or Annuity 
Payments
1099-R Distributions From Pensions, Annuities, 
Retirement or Profit-Sharing Plans, IRAs, 
Insurance Contracts, etc.
5304-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for 
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—Not 
for Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5305-S SIMPLE Individual Retirement T rust Account
5305-SA SIMPLE Individual Retirement Custodial 
Account
  590-B
  560
  571
  575
  939
  W-4P
  1099-R
  5304-SIMPLE
  5305-S
  5305-SA
5305-SIMPLE Savings Incentive Match Plan for 
Employees of Small Employers (SIMPLE)—for 
Use With a Designated Financial Institution
5329 Additional T axes on Qualified Plans (Including 
IRAs) and Other T ax-Favored Accounts
5498 IRA Contribution Information
8606 Nondeductible IRAs
8815 Exclusion of Interest From Series EE and I U.S. 
Savings Bonds Issued After 1989
8839 Qualified Adoption Expenses
8880 Credit for Qualified Retirement Savings 
Contributions
8915-F Qualified Disaster Retirement Plan 
Distributions and Repayments
See How T o Get T ax Help near the end of this publication 
for information about getting these publications and forms.
  5305-SIMPLE
  5329
  5498
  8606
  8815
  8839
  8880
  8915-F
T able I-1. Using This Publication
IF you need information on...  THEN see... 
traditional IRAs (not including traditional SIMPLE IRAs)  chapter 1.
Roth IRAs (not including Roth SIMPLE IRAs)  chapter 2, and parts of 
 chapter 1.
the credit for qualified retirement savings contributions 
(saver's credit)
 chapter 3.
how to keep a record of your contributions to, and 
distributions from, your traditional IRA(s) 
 Appendix A.
SEP IRAs, SIMPLE IRAs, and 401(k) plans  Pub. 560.
Coverdell education savings accounts (ESAs) (formerly 
called education IRAs)
 Pub. 970.
IF for 2025, you:
• received social security benefits,
• had taxable compensation,
• contributed to a traditional IRA, and
• you or your spouse was covered by an employer 
retirement plan,
 and you want to...
 THEN see...
first figure your modified adjusted gross income (AGI)  Appendix B,  Worksheet 1.
then figure how much of your traditional IRA contribution 
you can deduct
 Appendix B,  Worksheet 2.
and finally figure how much of your social security is 
taxable 
 Appendix B,  Worksheet 3.
4 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 5 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 5 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
T able I-2. How Are a Traditional IRA and a Roth IRA Different?
This table shows the differences between traditional IRAs (not including traditional SIMPLE IRAs) and Roth IRAs (not 
including Roth SIMPLE IRAs). Answers in the middle column apply to traditional IRAs. Answers in the right column apply 
to Roth IRAs.
Question Answer
Traditional IRA? Roth IRA?
Is there an age limit on when I can open 
and contribute to a ................
No. For tax years after 2019, you are 
able to contribute to your IRA even if 
you have reached age 701/2 or older. 
See Who Can Open a T raditional IRA? 
in chapter 1.
No. Y ou can be any age. See Can Y ou 
Contribute to a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.
If I earned more than $7,000 in 2025 
($8,000 if I was age 50 or older by the 
end of 2025), is there a limit on how 
much I can contribute to a ...........
Y es. For 2025, you can contribute to a 
traditional IRA up to: 
• $7,000, or
• $8,000 if you were age 50 or older 
by the end of 2025.
There is no upper limit on how much 
you can earn and still contribute. See 
How Much Can Be Contributed? in 
chapter 1. 
Y es. For 2025, you may be able to 
contribute to a Roth IRA up to: 
• $7,000, or
• $8,000 if you were age 50 or older 
by the end of 2025,
but the amount you can contribute may 
be less than that depending on your 
income, your filing status, and if you 
contribute to another IRA. See How 
Much Can Be Contributed? and T able 
2-1 in chapter 2.
Can I deduct contributions to a .......
Y es. Y ou may be able to deduct your 
contributions to a traditional IRA 
depending on your income, your filing 
status, whether you are covered by a 
retirement plan at work, and whether 
you receive social security benefits. 
See How Much Can Y ou Deduct? in 
chapter 1.
No. Y ou can never deduct contributions 
to a Roth IRA. See What Is a Roth IRA? 
in chapter 2.
Do I have to file a form just because I 
contribute to a ....................
Not unless you make nondeductible 
contributions to your traditional IRA. In 
that case, you must file Form 8606. See 
Nondeductible Contributions in 
chapter 1.
No. Y ou don’t have to file a form if you 
contribute to a Roth IRA. See 
Contributions not reported in chapter 2.
Publication 590-A (2025) 5

--- PAGE 6 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 6 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
1.
Traditional IRAs
Reminders
Types of IRAs. An IRA can be either a traditional IRA or 
a Roth IRA. In general, individuals may make their own 
contributions to their traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. In ad-
dition, certain employers have arrangements under which 
the employer may contribute to IRAs of their employees.
Under a SEP arrangement, an employer contributes to 
traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as traditional SEP 
IRAs) or Roth IRAs (sometimes referred to as Roth SEP 
IRAs) of its employees. Individuals may separately make 
their own contributions to the same IRAs to which their 
employer contributes under a SEP arrangement.
Under a SIMPLE IRA plan, an employer contributes 
salary reduction contributions (at the election of the em-
ployee), matching contributions and/or nonelective contri-
butions to traditional IRAs (sometimes referred to as tradi-
tional SIMPLE IRAs) or Roth IRAs (sometimes referred to 
as Roth SIMPLE IRAs) of its employees. However, a SIM-
PLE IRA (whether a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth 
SIMPLE IRA) is subject to certain restrictions that do not 
generally apply to other traditional IRAs or Roth IRAs. For 
example, an individual cannot make their own contribu-
tions to a SIMPLE IRA. In addition, there are various re-
strictions related to distributions and contributions during 
the initial 2 years of participation in the SIMPLE IRA plan.
References in this publication to traditional IRAs gener-
ally include traditional SEP IRAs but do not include tradi-
tional SIMPLE IRAs, unless otherwise stated. Likewise, 
references to Roth IRAs generally include Roth SEP IRAs 
but do not include Roth SIMPLE IRAs, unless otherwise 
stated.
Introduction
This chapter discusses the original IRA. In this publica-
tion, the original IRA (sometimes called an ordinary or reg-
ular IRA) is referred to as a “traditional IRA.” For purposes 
of this publication, a traditional IRA is any IRA that isn’t a 
Roth IRA or a SIMPLE IRA. T raditional IRAs include tradi-
tional IRAs that receive employer contributions from SEP 
arrangements. The following are two advantages of a tra-
ditional IRA.
• Y ou may be able to deduct some or all of your contri-
butions to it, depending on your circumstances.
• Generally, amounts in your IRA, including earnings 
and gains, aren’t taxed until they are distributed.
Roth IRAs are discussed in chapter 2 . SIMPLE IRAs 
are discussed in Pub. 560. For a traditional IRA that re-
ceives employer contributions from a SEP arrangement, 
see Simplified Employee Pension (SEP), later.
Who Can Open a Traditional 
IRA?
Y ou can open and make contributions to a traditional IRA if 
you (or, if you file a joint return, your spouse) received tax-
able compensation during the year.
Y ou can have a traditional IRA whether or not you are 
covered by any other retirement plan. However, you may 
not be able to deduct all of your contributions if you or your 
spouse is covered by an employer retirement plan. See 
How Much Can Y ou Deduct, later.
For tax years beginning after December 31, 2019, 
the rule that you are not able to make contribu-
tions to your traditional IRA for the year in which 
you reach age 70½ and all later years has been repealed.
Both spouses have compensation.  If both you and 
your spouse have compensation, each of you can open an 
IRA. Y ou can’t both participate in the same IRA. If you file 
a joint return, only one of you needs to have compensa-
tion.
What Is Compensation?
Generally, compensation is what you earn from working. 
For a summary of what compensation does and doesn’t 
include, see T able 1-1. Compensation includes all of the 
items discussed next (even if you have more than one 
type).
Wages, salaries, etc. Wages, salaries, tips, professional 
fees, bonuses, and other amounts you receive for provid-
ing personal services are compensation. The IRS treats 
as compensation any amount properly shown in box 1 
(Wages, tips, other compensation) of Form W -2, Wage 
and T ax Statement, provided that amount is reduced by 
any amount properly shown in box 11 (Nonqualified 
plans). A scholarship or fellowship is generally taxable 
compensation only if it is in box 1 of your Form W -2. How-
ever, for tax years beginning after 2019, certain non-tuition 
fellowship and stipend payments not reported to you on 
Form W -2 are treated as taxable compensation for IRA 
purposes. These amounts include taxable non -tuition fel-
lowship and stipend payments made to aid you in the pur-
suit of graduate or postdoctoral study and included in your 
gross income under the rules discussed in chapter 1 of 
Pub. 970, T ax Benefits for Education.
Commissions. An amount you receive that is a percent-
age of profits or sales price is compensation.
Self-employment income.  If you are self -employed (a 
sole proprietor or a partner), compensation is the net 
TIP
6 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 7 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 7 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
earnings from your trade or business (provided your per-
sonal services are a material income -producing factor) re-
duced by the total of:
• The deduction for contributions made on your behalf 
to retirement plans, and
• The deduction allowed for the deductible part of your 
self-employment taxes.
Compensation includes earnings from self-employment 
even if they aren’t subject to self-employment tax because 
of your religious beliefs.
Self-employment loss.  If you have a net loss from 
self-employment, don’t subtract the loss from your salaries 
or wages when figuring your total compensation.
Alimony and separate maintenance.  For IRA purpo-
ses, compensation includes any taxable alimony and sep-
arate maintenance payments you receive under a decree 
of divorce or separate maintenance but only with respect 
to divorce or separation instruments executed on or before 
December 31, 2018, that have not been modified to ex-
clude such amounts.
Nontaxable combat pay.  If you were a member of the 
U.S. Armed Forces, compensation includes any nontaxa-
ble combat pay you received. This amount should be re-
ported in box 12 of your 2025 Form W-2 with code Q.
Graduate or postdoctoral study.  A scholarship or fel-
lowship is generally taxable compensation only if it is in 
box 1 of your Form W -2. However, for tax years beginning 
after 2019, certain non -tuition fellowship and stipend pay-
ments not reported to you on Form W-2 are treated as tax-
able compensation for IRA purposes. These amounts in-
clude taxable non-tuition fellowship and stipend payments 
made to aid you in the pursuit of graduate or postdoctoral 
study and included in your gross income under the rules 
discussed in chapter 1 of Pub. 970.
Compensation for Purposes
of an IRA
Includes... Doesn’t include...
 earnings and profits from
 property.
wages, salaries, etc.
 interest and
 dividend income.
commissions.
 pension or annuity
 income.
self-employment income.
 deferred compensation.
taxable alimony and separate 
maintenance.
 income from certain 
 partnerships.
nontaxable combat pay.
 any amounts you exclude
 from income.
taxable non-tuition fellowship and 
stipend payments.
T able 1-1.
What Isn’t Compensation?
Compensation doesn’t include any of the following items.
• Earnings and profits from property, such as rental in-
come, interest income, and dividend income.
• Pension or annuity income.
• Deferred compensation received (compensation pay-
ments postponed from a past year).
• Income from a partnership for which you don’t provide 
services that are a material income-producing factor.
• Conservation Reserve Program (CRP) payments re-
ported on Schedule SE (Form 1040), line 1b.
• Any amounts (other than combat pay) you exclude 
from income, such as foreign earned income and 
housing costs.
When Can a Traditional IRA Be 
Opened?
Y ou can open a traditional IRA at any time. However, the 
time for making contributions for any year is limited. See 
When Can Contributions Be Made, later.
How Can a Traditional IRA Be 
Opened?
Y ou can open different kinds of IRAs with a variety of or-
ganizations. Y ou can open an IRA at a bank or other finan-
cial institution or with a mutual fund or life insurance com-
pany. Y ou can also open an IRA through your stockbroker. 
Any IRA must meet Internal Revenue Code requirements. 
The requirements for the various arrangements are dis-
cussed below.
Kinds of traditional IRAs. Y our traditional IRA can be an 
individual retirement account or annuity. It can be an em-
ployer or employee association trust account. A traditional 
IRA can also be used to accept employer contributions 
under a SEP arrangement (sometimes referred to as a tra-
ditional SEP IRA).
Individual Retirement Account
An individual retirement account is a trust or custodial ac-
count set up in the United States for the exclusive benefit 
of you or your beneficiaries. The account is created by a 
written document. The document must show that the ac-
count meets all of the following requirements.
• The trustee or custodian must be a bank, a federally 
insured credit union, a savings and loan association, 
or an entity approved by the IRS to act as trustee or 
custodian.
• The trustee or custodian generally can’t accept contri-
butions of more than the deductible amount for the 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 7

--- PAGE 8 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 8 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
year. However, rollover contributions and employer 
contributions to a traditional SEP IRA can be more 
than this amount.
• Contributions, except for rollover contributions, must 
be in cash. See Rollovers, later.
• Y ou must have a nonforfeitable right to the amount at 
all times.
• Money in your account can’t be used to buy a life in-
surance policy.
• Assets in your account can’t be combined with other 
property, except in a common trust fund or common 
investment fund.
• Y ou must start receiving distributions by April 1 of the 
year following the year in which you reach age 73. See 
Pub. 590-B for more information about RMDs and 
other distribution rules.
Individual Retirement Annuity
Y ou can open an individual retirement annuity by purchas-
ing an annuity contract or an endowment contract from a 
life insurance company.
An individual retirement annuity must be issued in your 
name as the owner, and either you or your beneficiaries 
who survive you are the only ones who can receive the 
benefits or payments.
An individual retirement annuity must meet all the fol-
lowing requirements.
• Y our entire interest in the contract must be nonforfeita-
ble.
• The contract must provide that you can’t transfer any 
portion of it to any person other than the issuer.
• There must be flexible premiums so that if your com-
pensation changes, your payment can also change. 
This provision applies to contracts issued after No-
vember 6, 1978.
• The contract must provide that contributions can’t be 
more than the deductible amount for an IRA for the 
year, and that you must use any refunded premiums to 
pay for future premiums or to buy more benefits before 
the end of the calendar year after the year in which 
you receive the refund.
• Distributions must begin by April 1 of the year follow-
ing the year in which you reach age 73. See Pub. 
590-B for more information about RMDs and other dis-
tribution rules. 
Individual Retirement Bonds
The sale of individual retirement bonds issued by the fed-
eral government was suspended after April 30, 1982. The 
bonds have the following features.
• They stop earning interest when you reach age 701/2. 
If you die, interest will stop 5 years after your death, or 
on the date you would have reached age 701/2, 
whichever is earlier.
• Y ou can’t transfer the bonds.
If you cash (redeem) the bonds before the year in which 
you reach age 59 1/2, you may be subject to a 10% addi-
tional tax. See Pub. 590 -B for more information about the 
age 59 1/2 rule for early distributions and other distribution 
rules. Y ou can roll over redemption proceeds into IRAs.
SIMPLE IRA Plans and SIMPLE IRAs
A SIMPLE IRA plan is a tax -favored retirement plan that 
certain small employers (including self -employed employ-
ees) can set up for the benefit of their employees. Contri-
butions to the employees’ SIMPLE IRA are made by the 
employers and are made up of salary reduction contribu-
tions and employer contributions which are either match-
ing contributions or nonelective contributions. A SIMPLE 
IRA can be either a traditional SIMPLE IRA or a Roth SIM-
PLE IRA but are subject to different rules than traditional 
or Roth IRAs. See Pub. 560 for more information about 
SIMPLE IRA plans and SIMPLE IRAs.
Simplified Employee Pension (SEP) 
Arrangements and SIMPLE IRAs
A SEP arrangement is a written plan that allows an em-
ployer to make contributions to an employee’s traditional 
SEP IRA or Roth SEP IRA. Employer contributions to SEP 
IRAs are subject to different limits than individual contribu-
tions to traditional and Roth IRAs. Distributions from SEP 
IRAs are subject to traditional and Roth IRA rules. See 
Pub. 560 for more information about SEP arrangements 
and SIMPLE IRAs.
Employer and Employee Association 
Trust Accounts
Y our employer or your labor union or other employee as-
sociation can set up a trust to provide individual retirement 
accounts for employees or members, provided certain re-
quirements are met (such as separate accounting). The 
requirements for individual retirement accounts apply to 
these traditional and Roth IRAs.
Required Disclosures
The trustee or issuer (sometimes called the sponsor) of 
your traditional IRA must generally give you a disclosure 
statement at least 7 days before you open your IRA. How-
ever, the sponsor doesn’t have to give you the statement 
until the date you open (or purchase, if earlier) your IRA, 
provided you are given at least 7 days from that date to re-
voke the IRA.
The disclosure statement must explain certain items in 
plain language. For example, the statement should explain 
when and how you can revoke the IRA, and include the 
name, address, and telephone number of the person to 
receive the notice of cancellation. This explanation must 
appear at the beginning of the disclosure statement. 
8 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 9 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 9 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
If you revoke your IRA within the revocation period, the 
sponsor must return to you the entire amount you paid. 
The sponsor must report on the appropriate IRS forms 
both your contribution to the IRA (unless it was made by a 
trustee-to-trustee transfer) and the amount returned to 
you. These requirements apply to all sponsors.
How Much Can Be 
Contributed?
There are limits and other rules that affect the amount that 
can be contributed to a traditional IRA. These limits and 
rules are explained below.
Community property laws.  Except as discussed later 
under Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit , each 
spouse figures their limit separately, using their own com-
pensation. This is the rule even in states with community 
property laws.
Brokers' commissions.  Brokers' commissions paid in 
connection with your traditional IRA are subject to the con-
tribution limit. For information about whether you can de-
duct brokers' commissions, see Brokers' commissions , 
later, under How Much Can Y ou Deduct.
Trustees' fees. T rustees' administrative fees aren’t sub-
ject to the contribution limit. For information about whether 
you can deduct trustees' fees, see T rustees' fees, later, 
under How Much Can Y ou Deduct.
Qualified reservist repayments.  If you were a member 
of a reserve component and you were ordered or called to 
active duty after September 11, 2001, you may be able to 
contribute (repay) to an IRA amounts equal to any quali-
fied reservist distributions (defined under Early Distribu-
tions in Pub. 590-B) you received. Y ou can make these re-
payment contributions even if they would cause your total 
contributions to the IRA to be more than the general limit 
on contributions. T o be eligible to make these repayment 
contributions, you must have received a qualified reservist 
distribution from an IRA or from a section 401(k) or 403(b) 
plan or a similar arrangement. See Early Distributions  in 
Pub. 590-B for more information on qualified reservist dis-
tributions.
Limit. Y our qualified reservist repayments can’t be 
more than your qualified reservist distributions.
When repayment contributions can be made.  Y ou 
can’t make these repayment contributions later than the 
date that is 2 years after your active duty period ends.
No deduction. Y ou can’t deduct qualified reservist re-
payments.
Reserve component. The term “reserve component” 
means the:
• Army National Guard of the United States,
• Army Reserve,
• Naval Reserve,
• Marine Corps Reserve,
• Air National Guard of the United States,
• Air Force Reserve,
• Coast Guard Reserve, or
• Reserve Corps of the Public Health Service.
Figuring your IRA deduction.  The repayment of 
qualified reservist distributions doesn’t affect the amount 
you can deduct as an IRA contribution.
Reporting the repayment. If you repay a qualified re-
servist distribution, include the amount of the repayment 
with nondeductible contributions on line 1 of Form 8606.
Example. In 2025, your IRA contribution limit is 
$7,000. However, because of your filing status and AGI, 
the limit on the amount you can deduct is $3,500. Y ou can 
make a nondeductible contribution of $3,500 ($7,000 – 
$3,500). In an earlier year, you received a $3,000 qualified 
reservist distribution, which you would like to repay this 
year.
For 2025, you can contribute a total of $10,000 to your 
IRA. This is made up of the maximum deductible contribu-
tion of $3,500; a nondeductible contribution of $3,500; 
and a $3,000 qualified reservist repayment. Y ou contribute 
the maximum allowable for the year. Because you are 
making a nondeductible contribution ($3,500) and a quali-
fied reservist repayment ($3,000), you must file Form 
8606 with your return and include $6,500 ($3,500 + 
$3,000) on line 1 of Form 8606. The qualified reservist re-
payment isn’t deductible.
Contributions on your behalf to a traditional IRA 
reduce your limit for contributions to a Roth IRA. 
See chapter 2 for information about Roth IRAs.
General Limit
For 2025, the most that can be contributed to your tradi-
tional IRA is generally the smaller of the following 
amounts.
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older).
• Y our taxable compensation (defined earlier) for the 
year.
Note: This limit is reduced by any contributions to a 
section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pension plan created 
before June 25, 1959, that is funded entirely by employee 
contributions).
This is the most that can be contributed regardless of 
whether the contributions are to one or more traditional 
IRAs or whether all or part of the contributions are nonde-
ductible. (See Nondeductible Contributions , later.) Quali-
fied reservist repayments don’t affect this limit.
Examples. Gina, who is 34 years old and single, earns 
$24,000 in 2025. Her IRA contributions for 2025 are limi-
ted to $7,000.
CAUTION
!
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 9

--- PAGE 10 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 10 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Danny, an unmarried college student working part time, 
earns $3,500 in 2025. His IRA contributions for 2025 are 
limited to $3,500, the amount of his compensation.
More than one IRA.  If you have more than one IRA, the 
limit applies to the total contributions made on your behalf 
to all your traditional IRAs for the year.
Annuity or endowment contracts.  If you invest in an 
annuity or endowment contract under an individual retire-
ment annuity, no more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 
50 or older) can be contributed toward its cost for the tax 
year, including the cost of life insurance coverage. If more 
than this amount is contributed, the annuity or endowment 
contract is disqualified.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA 
Limit
For 2025, if you file a joint return and your taxable com-
pensation is less than that of your spouse, the most that 
can be contributed for the year to your IRA is the smaller 
of the following two amounts.
1. $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older).
2. The total compensation includible in the gross income 
of both you and your spouse for the year, reduced by 
the following two amounts.
a. Y our spouse's IRA contribution for the year to a 
traditional IRA.
b. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on be-
half of your spouse.
This means that the total combined contributions that 
can be made for the year to your IRA and your spouse's 
IRA can be as much as $14,000 ($15,000 if only one of 
you is age 50 or older, or $16,000 if both of you are age 50 
or older).
Note: This traditional IRA limit is reduced by any con-
tributions to a section 501(c)(18) plan (generally, a pen-
sion plan created before June 25, 1959, that is funded en-
tirely by employee contributions).
Example. Y ou are a full-time student with no taxable 
compensation and marry during the year. Neither you nor 
your spouse are at least age 50 by the end of 2025. Y our 
spouse has taxable compensation of $30,000. Y our 
spouse plans to contribute (and deduct) $7,000 to a tradi-
tional IRA. If you and your spouse file a joint return, you 
and your spouse can each contribute $7,000 to a tradi-
tional IRA. Because you have no compensation, you can 
add your spouse’s compensation, reduced by the amount 
of your spouse’s IRA contribution ($30,000 – $7,000 = 
$23,000), to your compensation ( -0-) to figure your maxi-
mum contribution to a traditional IRA. In your case, $7,000 
is your contribution limit, because $7,000 is less than 
$23,000 (your compensation for purposes of figuring your 
contribution limit).
Filing Status
Generally, except as discussed earlier under Kay Bailey 
Hutchison Spousal IRA Limit , your filing status has no ef-
fect on the amount of allowable contributions to your tradi-
tional IRA. However, if during the year either you or your 
spouse was covered by a retirement plan at work, your de-
duction may be reduced or eliminated, depending on your 
filing status and income. See How Much Can Y ou Deduct, 
later.
Example. Y ou and your spouse are both age 53. Y ou 
both work and you both have a traditional IRA. Y ou earned 
$3,800 and your spouse earned $48,000 in 2025. Be-
cause of the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA limit rule, 
even though you earned less than $8,000, you can con-
tribute up to $8,000 to your IRA for 2025 if you file a joint 
return. Y our spouse can contribute up to $8,000 to their 
IRA. If you file separate returns, the amount that can be 
contributed to your IRA is limited by your earned income, 
$3,800.
Less Than Maximum Contributions
If contributions to your traditional IRA for a year were less 
than the limit, you can’t contribute more after the due date 
of your return for that year to make up the difference.
Example. Y ou are age 40 and earn $30,000 in 2025. 
Although you can contribute up to $7,000 for 2025, you 
contribute only $3,000. After April 15, 2026, you can’t 
make up the difference between your actual contributions 
for 2025 ($3,000) and your 2025 limit ($7,000). Y ou can’t 
contribute $4,000 more than the limit for any later year.
More Than Maximum Contributions
If contributions to your IRA for a year were more than the 
limit, you can apply the excess contribution in one year to 
a later year if the contributions for that later year are less 
than the maximum allowed for that year. However, a pen-
alty or additional tax may apply. See Excess Contribu-
tions, later, under What Acts Result in Penalties or Addi-
tional T axes.
When Can Contributions Be 
Made?
As soon as you open your traditional IRA, contributions 
can be made to it through your chosen sponsor (trustee or 
other administrator). Contributions must be in the form of 
money (cash, check, or money order). Property can’t be 
contributed.
Although property can’t be contributed, your IRA may 
invest in certain property. For example, your IRA may pur-
chase shares of stock. For other restrictions on the use of 
funds in your IRA, see Prohibited T ransactions, later in this 
chapter. Y ou may be able to transfer or roll over certain 
10 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 11 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 11 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
property from one retirement plan to another. See the dis-
cussion of rollovers and other transfers later in this chapter 
under Can Y ou Move Retirement Plan Assets.
Y ou can make a contribution to your IRA by having 
your income tax refund (or a portion of your re-
fund), if any, paid directly to your traditional IRA or 
Roth IRA. For details, see the instructions for your income 
tax return or Form 8888, Allocation of Refund.
Contributions can be made to your traditional IRA for 
each year that you receive compensation. For any year in 
which you don’t work, contributions can’t be made to your 
IRA unless you receive taxable alimony, nontaxable com-
bat pay, or military differential pay, or file a joint return with 
a spouse who has compensation. See Who Can Open a 
T raditional IRA, earlier. Even if contributions can’t be made 
for the current year, the amounts contributed for years in 
which you did qualify can remain in your IRA. Contribu-
tions can resume for any years that you qualify.
Contributions must be made by due date.  Contribu-
tions can be made to your traditional IRA for a year at any 
time during the year or by the due date for filing your return 
for that year, not including extensions. For most people, 
this means that contributions for 2025 must be made by 
April 15, 2026.
For tax years beginning after 2019, the rule that 
you are not able to make contributions to your tra-
ditional IRA for the year in which you reach age 
70½ and all later years has been repealed.
Designating year for which contribution is made.  If 
an amount is contributed to your traditional IRA between 
January 1 and April 15, you should tell the sponsor which 
year (the current year or the previous year) the contribu-
tion is for. If you don’t tell the sponsor which year it is for, 
the sponsor can assume, and report to the IRS, that the 
contribution is for the current year (the year the sponsor 
received it).
Filing before a contribution is made.  Y ou can file your 
return claiming a traditional IRA contribution before the 
contribution is actually made. Generally, the contribution 
must be made by the due date of your return, not including 
extensions.
Contributions not required.  Y ou don’t have to contrib-
ute to your traditional IRA for every tax year, even if you 
can.
How Much Can You Deduct?
Generally, you can deduct the lesser of:
• The contributions to your traditional IRA for the year, 
or
• The general limit (or the Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal 
IRA limit, if applicable) explained earlier under How 
Much Can Be Contributed.
TIP
TIP
However, if you or your spouse was covered by an em-
ployer retirement plan, you may not be able to deduct this 
amount. See Limit if Covered by Employer Plan, later.
Y ou may be able to claim a credit for contributions 
to your traditional IRA. For more information, see 
chapter 3.
Trustees' fees. T rustees' administrative fees that are bil-
led separately and paid in connection with your traditional 
IRA aren’t deductible as IRA contributions. Y ou are also 
not able to deduct these fees as an itemized deduction.
Brokers' commissions. These commissions are part of 
your IRA contribution and, as such, are deductible subject 
to the limits.
Full deduction. If neither you nor your spouse was cov-
ered for any part of the year by an employer retirement 
plan, you can take a deduction for total contributions to 
one or more of your traditional IRAs of up to the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• 100% of your compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions made to a 
section 501(c)(18) plan on your behalf.
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal IRA.  In the case of a 
married couple with unequal compensation who file a joint 
return, the deduction for contributions to the traditional 
IRA of the spouse with less compensation is limited to the 
lesser of:
1. $7,000 ($8,000 if the spouse with the lower compen-
sation is age 50 or older), or
2. The total compensation includible in the gross income 
of both spouses for the year reduced by the following 
three amounts.
a. The IRA deduction for the year of the spouse with 
the greater compensation.
b. Any designated nondeductible contribution for the 
year made on behalf of the spouse with the 
greater compensation.
c. Any contributions for the year to a Roth IRA on be-
half of the spouse with the greater compensation.
This limit is reduced by any contributions to a section 
501(c)(18) plan on behalf of the spouse with the lesser 
compensation.
Note: If you were divorced or legally separated (and 
didn’t remarry) before the end of the year, you can’t de-
duct any contributions to your spouse's IRA. After a di-
vorce or legal separation, you can deduct only the contri-
butions to your own IRA. Y our deductions are subject to 
the rules for single individuals.
Covered by an employer retirement plan.  If you or 
your spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan 
at any time during the year for which contributions were 
made, your deduction may be further limited. This is 
discussed later under Limit if Covered by Employer Plan . 
TIP
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 11

--- PAGE 12 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 12 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Limits on the amount you can deduct don’t affect the 
amount that can be contributed.
Are You Covered by an Employer 
Plan?
The Form W-2 you receive from your employer has a box 
used to indicate whether you were covered for the year. 
The “Retirement plan” box should be checked if you were 
covered.
Reservists and volunteer firefighters should also see 
Situations in Which Y ou Aren’t Covered, later.
If you aren’t certain whether you were covered by your 
employer's retirement plan, you should ask your employer.
Federal judges. For purposes of the IRA deduction, fed-
eral judges are covered by an employer plan.
For Which Year(s) Are You Covered?
Special rules apply to determine the tax years for which 
you are covered by an employer plan. These rules differ 
depending on whether the plan is a defined contribution 
plan or a defined benefit plan.
Tax year. Y our tax year is the annual accounting period 
you use to keep records and report income and expenses 
on your income tax return. For almost all people, the tax 
year is the calendar year.
Defined contribution plan.  Generally, you are covered 
by a defined contribution plan for a tax year if amounts are 
contributed or allocated to your account for the plan year 
that ends with or within that tax year. However, also see 
Situations in Which Y ou Aren’t Covered, later.
A defined contribution plan is a plan that provides for a 
separate account for each person covered by the plan. In 
a defined contribution plan, the amount to be contributed 
to each participant's account is spelled out in the plan. 
The level of benefits actually provided to a participant de-
pends on the total amount contributed to that participant's 
account and any earnings and losses on those contribu-
tions. T ypes of defined contribution plans include 
profit-sharing plans, stock bonus plans, and money pur-
chase pension plans.
Example. Company A has a money purchase pension 
plan. Its plan year is from July 1 to June 30. The plan pro-
vides that contributions must be allocated as of June 30. 
An employee leaves Company A on December 31, 2024. 
The contribution for the plan year ending on June 30, 
2025, is made February 15, 2026. Because an amount is 
contributed to the employee’s account for the plan year, 
this employee is covered by the plan for their 2025 tax 
year.
Note: A special rule applies to certain plans in which it 
isn’t possible to determine if an amount will be contributed 
to your account for a given plan year. If, for a plan year, no 
amounts have been allocated to your account that are at-
tributable to employer contributions, employee 
contributions, or forfeitures, by the last day of the plan 
year, and contributions are discretionary for the plan year, 
you aren’t covered for the tax year in which the plan year 
ends. If, after the plan year ends, the employer makes a 
contribution for that plan year, you are covered for the tax 
year in which the contribution is made.
Example. Y ou were covered by a profit -sharing plan 
and left the company on December 31, 2024. The plan 
year runs from July 1 to June 30. Under the terms of the 
plan, employer contributions don’t have to be made, but if 
they are made, they are contributed to the plan before the 
due date for filing the company's tax return. Such contribu-
tions are allocated as of the last day of the plan year, and 
allocations are made to the accounts of individuals who 
have any service during the plan year. As of June 30, 
2025, no contributions were made that were allocated to 
the June 30, 2025, plan year, and no forfeitures had been 
allocated within the plan year. In addition, as of that date, 
the company wasn’t obligated to make a contribution for 
such plan year, and it was impossible to determine 
whether or not a contribution would be made for the plan 
year. On December 31, 2025, the company decided to 
contribute to the plan for the plan year ending June 30, 
2025. That contribution was made on February 15, 2026. 
Y ou are an active participant in the plan for your 2026 tax 
year but not for your 2025 tax year.
No vested interest.  If an amount is allocated to your 
account for a plan year, you are covered by that plan even 
if you have no vested interest in (legal right to) the ac-
count.
Defined benefit plan.  If you are eligible to participate in 
your employer's defined benefit plan for the plan year that 
ends within your tax year, you are covered by the plan. 
This rule applies even if you:
• Declined to participate in the plan,
• Didn’t make a required contribution, or
• Didn’t perform the minimum service required to accrue 
a benefit for the year.
A defined benefit plan is any plan that isn’t a defined 
contribution plan. In a defined benefit plan, the level of 
benefits to be provided to each participant is spelled out in 
the plan. The plan administrator figures the amount nee-
ded to provide those benefits, and those amounts are con-
tributed to the plan. Defined benefit plans include pension 
plans and annuity plans.
Example. Y ou are an employee of Company B and are 
eligible to participate in Company B's defined benefit plan, 
which has a July 1 to June 30 plan year. Y ou leave Com-
pany B on December 31, 2024. Because you are eligible 
to participate in the plan for its year ending June 30, 2025, 
you are covered by the plan for your 2025 tax year.
No vested interest.  If you accrue a benefit for a plan 
year, you are covered by that plan even if you have no ves-
ted interest in (legal right to) the accrual.
12 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 13 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 13 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Situations in Which You Aren’t Covered
Unless you are covered by another employer plan, you 
aren’t covered by an employer plan if you are in one of the 
situations described below.
Social security or railroad retirement. Coverage under 
social security or railroad retirement isn’t coverage under 
an employer retirement plan.
Benefits from previous employer's plan. If you receive 
retirement benefits from a previous employer's plan, you 
aren’t covered by that plan.
Reservists. If the only reason you participate in a plan is 
because you are a member of a reserve unit of the Armed 
Forces, you may not be covered by the plan. Y ou aren’t 
covered by the plan if both of the following conditions are 
met.
1. The plan you participate in is established for its em-
ployees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b) above.
2. Y ou didn’t serve more than 90 days on active duty 
during the year (not counting duty for training).
Volunteer firefighters. If the only reason you participate 
in a plan is because you are a volunteer firefighter, you 
may not be covered by the plan. Y ou aren’t covered by the 
plan if both of the following conditions are met.
1. The plan you participate in is established for its em-
ployees by:
a. The United States,
b. A state or political subdivision of a state, or
c. An instrumentality of either (a) or (b) above.
2. Y our accrued retirement benefits at the beginning of 
the year won’t provide more than $1,800 per year at 
retirement.
Limit if Covered by Employer Plan
As discussed earlier, the deduction you can take for con-
tributions made to your traditional IRA depends on 
whether you or your spouse was covered for any part of 
the year by an employer retirement plan. Y our deduction is 
also affected by how much income you had and by your 
filing status. Y our deduction may also be affected by social 
security benefits you received.
Reduced or no deduction.  If either you or your spouse 
was covered by an employer retirement plan, you may be 
entitled to only a partial (reduced) deduction or no deduc-
tion at all, depending on your income and your filing sta-
tus.
Y our deduction begins to decrease (phase out) when 
your income rises above a certain amount and is 
eliminated altogether when it reaches a higher amount. 
These amounts vary depending on your filing status.
T o determine if your deduction is subject to the phase-
out, you must determine your modified AGI and your filing 
status, as explained later under Deduction Phaseout . 
Once you have determined your modified AGI and your fil-
ing status, you can use T able 1-2 or T able 1-3 to deter-
mine if the phaseout applies.
Social Security Recipients
Instead of using T able 1-2 or T able 1-3 and Worksheet 
1-2, complete the worksheets in Appendix B of this publi-
cation if, for the year, all of the following apply.
• Y ou received social security benefits.
• Y ou received taxable compensation.
• Contributions were made to your traditional IRA.
• Y ou or your spouse was covered by an employer re-
tirement plan.
Use the worksheets in Appendix B to figure your IRA de-
duction, your nondeductible contribution, and the taxable 
portion, if any, of your social security benefits. Appendix B 
includes an example with filled -in worksheets to assist 
you.
Deduction Phaseout
The amount of any reduction in the limit on your IRA de-
duction (phaseout) depends on whether you or your 
spouse was covered by an employer retirement plan.
Covered by a retirement plan. If you are covered by an 
employer retirement plan and you didn’t receive any social 
security retirement benefits, your IRA deduction may be 
reduced or eliminated depending on your filing status and 
modified AGI, as shown in T able 1-2.
If your spouse is covered.  If you aren’t covered by an 
employer retirement plan, but your spouse is, and you 
didn’t receive any social security benefits, your IRA de-
duction may be reduced or eliminated entirely depending 
on your filing status and modified AGI as shown in T a-
ble 1-3.
Filing status. Y our filing status depends primarily on your 
marital status. For this purpose, you need to know if your 
filing status is single or head of household, married filing 
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse, or married filing sep-
arately. If you need more information on filing status, see 
Pub. 501, Dependents, Standard Deduction, and Filing In-
formation.
Lived apart from spouse.  If you didn’t live with your 
spouse at any time during the year and you file a separate 
return, your filing status, for this purpose, is single.
Modified AGI. Y ou can use Worksheet 1-1 to figure your 
modified AGI. If you made contributions to your IRA for 
2025 and received a distribution from your IRA in 2025, 
see Both contributions for 2025 and distributions in 2025 , 
later.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 13

--- PAGE 14 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 14 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Don’t assume that your modified AGI is the same 
as your compensation. Y our modified AGI may in-
clude income in addition to your compensation 
(discussed earlier) such as interest, dividends, and in-
come from IRA distributions.
Form 1040 or 1040 -SR. If you file Form 1040 or 
1040-SR, refigure the amount on line 11a, the “adjusted 
gross income” line, without taking into account any of the 
following amounts.
• IRA deduction.
• Student loan interest deduction.
CAUTION
!
• Foreign earned income exclusion.
• Foreign housing exclusion or deduction.
• Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on 
Form 8815.
• Exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits 
shown on Form 8839.
This is your modified AGI.
Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Are Covered by a Retirement Plan at 
Work
If you are covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI affects the amount of your 
deduction.
IF your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is... THEN you can take... 
single or
head of household
$79,000 or less a full deduction.
more than $79,000
but less than $89,000 a partial deduction.
$89,000 or more no deduction.
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving spouse
$126,000 or less a full deduction.
more than $126,000
but less than $146,000 a partial deduction.
$146,000 or more no deduction.
married filing separately2
less than $10,000 a partial deduction.
$10,000 or more no deduction.
1 Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified adjusted gross income (AGI), earlier.
2 If you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year, your filing status is considered Single for this purpose (therefore, your IRA deduction 
is determined under the “Single” filing status).
T able 1-2.
Effect of Modified AGI1 on Deduction if You Aren’t Covered by a Retirement Plan at 
Work
If you aren’t covered by a retirement plan at work, use this table to determine if your modified AGI affects the amount of 
your deduction.
IF your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is... THEN you can take...
single,
head of household, or
qualifying surviving spouse
any amount a full deduction.
married filing jointly or separately with a 
spouse who isn’t covered by a plan
at work
any amount a full deduction.
married filing jointly with a spouse who is 
covered by a plan at work
$236,000 or less a full deduction.
more than $236,000
but less than $246,000 a partial deduction.
$246,000 or more no deduction.
married filing separately with a spouse who is 
covered by a plan at work2
less than $10,000 a partial deduction.
$10,000 or more no deduction.
1 Modified AGI (adjusted gross income). See Modified adjusted gross income (AGI), earlier.
2 Y ou are entitled to the full deduction if you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year.
T able 1-3.
14 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 15 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 15 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Form 1040-NR. If you file Form 1040 -NR, refigure the 
amount on line 11a, the “adjusted gross income” line, 
without taking into account any of the following amounts.
• IRA deduction.
• Student loan interest deduction.
• Exclusion of qualified savings bond interest shown on 
Form 8815.
• Exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits 
shown on Form 8839.
This is your modified AGI.
Income from IRA distributions. If you received distri-
butions in 2025 from one or more traditional IRAs and your 
traditional IRAs include only deductible contributions, your 
distributions are fully taxable and are included in your 
modified AGI. See Pub. 590-B for more information on dis-
tributions.
Both contributions for 2025 and distributions in 
2025. If all three of the following apply, any IRA distribu-
tions you received in 2025 may be partly tax free and 
partly taxable.
• Y ou received distributions in 2025 from one or more 
traditional IRAs.
• Y ou made contributions to a traditional IRA for 2025.
• Some of those contributions may be nondeductible 
contributions. (See Nondeductible Contributions and 
Worksheet 1-2, later.)
If this is your situation, you must figure the taxable part of 
the traditional IRA distribution before you can figure your 
modified AGI. T o do this, you can use Worksheet 1 -1 in 
Pub. 590-B.
If at least one of the above doesn’t apply, figure your 
modified AGI using Worksheet 1-1.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 15

--- PAGE 16 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 16 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
How To Figure Your Reduced IRA Deduction
If you or your spouse is covered by an employer retirement 
plan and you didn’t receive any social security benefits, 
you can figure your reduced IRA deduction by using Work-
sheet 1-2. The Instructions for Form 1040 include a similar 
worksheet that you can use instead of the worksheet in 
this publication.
If you or your spouse is covered by an employer retire-
ment plan, and you received any social security benefits, 
see Social Security Recipients, earlier.
Note: If you were married and both you and your 
spouse contributed to an IRA, figure your deduction and 
your spouse's deduction separately.
Reporting Deductible Contributions
If you file Schedule 1 (Form 1040), enter your IRA deduc-
tion on line 20 of that form.
Self-employed. If you are self -employed (a sole proprie-
tor or partner) and have a SIMPLE IRA, enter your deduc-
tion for allowable plan contributions on Schedule 1 (Form 
1040), line 16.
Nondeductible Contributions
Although your deduction for IRA contributions may be re-
duced or eliminated, contributions can be made to your 
IRA of up to the general limit or, if it applies, the Kay Bailey 
Hutchison Spousal IRA limit . The difference between your 
total permitted contributions and your IRA deduction, if 
any, is your nondeductible contribution.
Example. Y ou are 29 years old and single. In 2025, 
you were covered by a retirement plan at work. Y our salary 
is $72,000. Y our modified AGI is $90,000. Y ou make a 
$7,000 IRA contribution for 2025. Because you were cov-
ered by a retirement plan and your modified AGI is above 
$89,000, you can’t deduct your $7,000 IRA contribution. 
Y ou must designate this contribution as a nondeductible 
contribution by reporting it on Form 8606.
Repayment of reservist distributions.  Nondeductible 
contributions may include repayments of qualified reserv-
ist distributions. For more information, see Qualified re-
servist repayments under How Much Can Be Contributed, 
earlier.
Difficulty of care payments.  For contributions after De-
cember 20, 2019, you are able to elect to increase the 
nondeductible IRA contribution limit by some or all of the 
amount of difficulty of care payments, which are a type of 
qualified foster care payment, received. If you receive diffi-
culty of care payments, then those amounts may increase 
the amount of nondeductible IRA contributions you can 
make but not above the $7,000 IRA deductible amount 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). The increase to the 
nondeductible IRA contribution limit equals the lesser of (i) 
the amount of difficulty of care payments excluded from 
gross income, or (ii) the amount by which the deductible 
limit for IRA contributions exceeds the amount of the tax-
payer's compensation included in gross income for the tax 
year.
Form 8606. T o designate contributions as nondeductible, 
you must file Form 8606.
Y ou don’t have to designate a contribution as nonde-
ductible until you file your tax return. When you file, you 
can even designate otherwise deductible contributions as 
nondeductible contributions.
Y ou must file Form 8606 to report nondeductible contri-
butions even if you don’t have to file a tax return for the 
year.
A Form 8606 isn’t used for the year that you make 
a rollover from a qualified retirement plan to a tra-
ditional IRA and the rollover includes nontaxable 
amounts. In those situations, a Form 8606 is completed 
for the year you take a distribution from that IRA. See 
Form 8606  under Distributions Fully or Partly T axable in 
Pub. 590-B.
CAUTION
!
Worksheet 1-1. Figuring Your Modified AGI Keep for Y our Records
Use this worksheet to figure your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes.
1. Enter your adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or Form 1040-NR, 
line 11a, figured without taking into account the amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), 
line 20 ...................................................................... 1.  
2. Enter any student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21 .......... 2.  
3. Enter any foreign earned income exclusion and/or housing exclusion from Form 2555, 
line 45 ...................................................................... 3.  
4. Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 ......................... 4.  
5. Enter any excludable savings bond interest from Form 8815, line 14 ................... 5.  
6. Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 8839, line 30 ........ 6.  
7. Add lines 1 through 6. This is your modified AGI for traditional IRA purposes ............ 7.  
16 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 17 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 17 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Failure to report nondeductible contributions.  If you 
don’t report nondeductible contributions, all of the contri-
butions to your traditional IRA will be treated like deducti-
ble contributions when withdrawn. All distributions from 
your IRA will be taxed unless you can show, with satisfac-
tory evidence, that nondeductible contributions were 
made.
Penalty for overstatement. If you overstate the amount 
of nondeductible contributions on your Form 8606 for any 
tax year, you must pay a penalty of $100 for each over-
statement, unless it was due to reasonable cause.
Penalty for failure to file Form 8606.  Y ou will have to 
pay a $50 penalty if you don’t file a required Form 8606, 
unless you can prove that the failure was due to reasona-
ble cause.
Tax on earnings on nondeductible contributions.  As 
long as contributions are within the contribution limits, 
none of the earnings or gains on contributions (deductible 
or nondeductible) will be taxed until they are distributed.
Cost basis. Y ou will have a cost basis in your traditional 
IRA if you made any nondeductible contributions. Y our 
cost basis is the sum of the nondeductible contributions to 
your IRA minus any withdrawals or distributions of nonde-
ductible contributions.
Commonly, distributions from your traditional IRAs 
will include both taxable and nontaxable (cost ba-
sis) amounts. See Pub. 590 -B for more informa-
tion on distributions.
Recordkeeping. There is a recordkeeping work-
sheet, Appendix A. Summary Record of T radi-
tional IRA(s) for 2025 , that you can use to keep a 
record of deductible and nondeductible IRA contributions.
Examples—Worksheet for Reduced 
IRA Deduction for 2025
The following examples illustrate the use of Worksheet 
1-2.
Example 1. For 2025, you and your spouse file a joint 
return on Form 1040. Y ou are both 39 years old. Y ou are 
both employed. Y ou are covered by your employer’s retire-
ment plan. However, your spouse isn’t covered by their 
employer’s retirement plan. Y our salary is $66,000, and 
your spouse’s salary is $51,500. Y ou each have a tradi-
tional IRA and your combined modified AGI, which in-
cludes $9,000 interest and dividend income, is $126,500. 
CAUTION
!
RECORDS
Because your modified AGI is between $126,000 and 
$146,000 and you are covered by an employer plan, you 
are subject to the deduction phaseout discussed earlier 
under Limit if Covered by Employer Plan.
For 2025, you and your spouse each contributed 
$7,000 to your respective IRAs. Even though you file a 
joint return, you must figure their IRA deductions 
separately.
Y ou can take a deduction of only $6,825. Using Work-
sheet 1 -2, you figure your deductible and nondeductible 
amounts as shown on Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Y our Re-
duced IRA Deduction for 2025—Example 1 Illustrated.
Y ou can choose to treat the $6,825 as either deductible 
or nondeductible contributions. Y ou can either leave the 
$175 ($7,000 − $6,825) of nondeductible contributions in 
your IRA or withdraw them by April 15, 2026. Y ou decide 
to treat the $6,825 as a deductible contribution and leave 
the $175 of nondeductible contributions in your IRA.
Y our spouse can treat all or part of their $7,000 contri-
bution as either deductible or nondeductible. This is be-
cause they aren’t covered by their employer's retirement 
plan and your combined modified AGI isn’t between 
$236,000 and $246,000. Therefore, they aren’t subject to 
the deduction phaseout discussed earlier under Limit if 
Covered by Employer Plan , and they don’t need to use 
Worksheet 1-2. Y our spouse decides to treat their $7,000 
IRA contribution as deductible.
The IRA deductions of $6,825 and $7,000 on the joint 
return for you and your spouse total $13,825.
Example 2. For 2025, you and your spouse file a joint 
return on Form 1040. Y ou are both 39 years old. Y our sal-
ary is $45,500 and you are covered by your employer's re-
tirement plan. Y our spouse had no compensation for the 
year and was not covered by an employer plan. Y ou con-
tribute $7,000 to your traditional IRA and $7,000 to your 
spouse's traditional IRA (a Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal 
IRA). Y our combined modified AGI which includes $2,000 
interest and dividend income and a large capital gain from 
the sale of stock is $238,500.
Because your combined modified AGI is $146,000 or 
more and you are covered by your employer's plan, you 
can’t deduct any of the contribution to your traditional IRA. 
Y ou can either leave the $7,000 of nondeductible contribu-
tions in your IRA or withdraw them by April 15, 2026.
Y our spouse figures their IRA deduction as shown on 
Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Y our Reduced IRA Deduction for 
2025—Example 2 Illustrated.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 17

--- PAGE 18 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 18 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Figuring Your Reduced IRA 
Deduction for 2025
Worksheet 1-2. 
Keep for Y our Records
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts 
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)
Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's 
deduction separately.
. 
IF you...
AND your 
filing status is...
AND your
modified AGI
is over...
THEN enter on 
line 1 below...
are covered by an 
employer plan 
single or head of 
household $79,000 $89,000
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving 
spouse $126,000 $146,000
married filing separately $0 $10,000
aren’t covered by an 
employer plan, but your 
spouse is covered
married filing jointly $236,000 $246,000
married filing separately $0 $10,000
1. Enter applicable amount from table above .............................................. 1.  
2. Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) ...................... 2.  
Note: If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Y our IRA contributions aren’t deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing 
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an employer plan), stop 
here. Y ou can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation, whichever is 
less ............................................................................. 3.  
4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of 
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to 
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an 
employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or 
older).
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if you are age 50 or older).
...... 4.  
5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 (deductible 
part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 (self-employed SEP , SIMPLE, 
and qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your 
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA 
contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, don’t reduce your 
compensation by any losses from self-employment ...................................... 5.  
6. Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2025, but don’t enter more than $7,000 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 
or older), see Excess Contributions, later .............................................. 6.  
7. IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if you 
choose) here and on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you 
want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to line 8 ................................... 7.  
8. Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 .................................... 8.  
18 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 19 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 19 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2025—Example 1 Illustrated
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts 
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)
Note. If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's 
deduction separately.
. 
IF you...
AND your 
filing status is...
AND your
modified AGI
is over...
THEN enter on 
line 1 below...
are covered by an 
employer plan 
single or head of 
household $79,000 $89,000
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving 
spouse $126,000 $146,000
married filing separately $0 $10,000
aren’t covered by an 
employer plan, but your 
spouse is covered
married filing jointly $236,000 $246,000
married filing separately $0 $10,000
1. Enter applicable amount from table above .............................................. 1. 146,000
2. Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) ...................... 2. 126,500
Note: If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Y our IRA contributions are not deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing 
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an employer plan), stop 
here. Y ou can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation, whichever is 
less ............................................................................. 3. 19,500
4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of 
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to 
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an 
employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or 
older).
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if you are age 50 or older).
...... 4. 6,825
5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 (deductible 
part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 (self-employed SEP , SIMPLE, 
and qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your 
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA 
contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, don’t reduce your 
compensation by any losses from self-employment ...................................... 5. 66,000
6. Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2025, but don’t enter more than $7,000 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 
or older), see Excess Contributions, later .............................................. 6. 7,000
7. IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if you 
choose) here and on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. If line 6 is more than line 7 and you 
want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to line 8 ................................... 7. 6,825
8. Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 .................................... 8. 175
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 19

--- PAGE 20 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 20 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Worksheet 1-2. Figuring Your Reduced IRA Deduction for 2025—Example 2 Illustrated
(Use only if you or your spouse is covered by an employer plan and your modified AGI falls between the two amounts 
shown below for your coverage situation and filing status.)
Note: If you were married and both you and your spouse contributed to IRAs, figure your deduction and your spouse's 
deduction separately.
. 
IF you...
AND your 
filing status is...
AND your
modified AGI
is over...
THEN enter on 
line 1 below...
are covered by an 
employer plan 
single or head of 
household $79,000 $89,000
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving 
spouse $126,000 $146,000
married filing separately $0 $10,000
aren’t covered by an 
employer plan, but your 
spouse is covered
married filing jointly $236,000 $246,000
married filing separately $0 $10,000
1. Enter applicable amount from table above .............................................. 1. 246,000
2. Enter your modified AGI (that of both spouses, if married filing jointly) ...................... 2. 238,500
Note: If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here.
Y our IRA contributions aren’t deductible. See Nondeductible Contributions, earlier.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If line 3 is $10,000 or more ($20,000 or more if married filing 
jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an employer plan), stop 
here. Y ou can take a full IRA deduction for contributions of up to $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 
or older) or 100% of your (and if married filing jointly, your spouse's) compensation, whichever is 
less ............................................................................. 3. 7,500
4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of 
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to 
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you are covered by an 
employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or 
older).
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if you are age 50 or older).
...... 4. 5,250
5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 (deductible 
part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 (self-employed SEP , SIMPLE, 
and qualified plans). If you are filing a joint return and your compensation is less than your 
spouse's, include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA 
contributions for this year. If you file Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, don’t reduce your 
compensation by any losses from self-employment ...................................... 5. 38,500
6. Enter contributions made, or to be made, to your IRA for 2025, but don’t enter more than $7,000 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). If contributions are more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 
or older), see Excess Contributions, later .............................................. 6. 7,000
7. IRA deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount (or a smaller amount if you 
choose) here and on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20, whichever applies. If line 6 is more 
than line 7 and you want to make a nondeductible contribution, go to line 8 .................. 7. 5,250
8. Nondeductible contribution. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller.
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606 .................................... 8. 1,750
20 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 21 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 21 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
What if You Inherit an IRA?
If you inherit a traditional IRA, you are called a beneficiary. 
A beneficiary can be any person or entity the owner choo-
ses to receive the benefits of the IRA after the owner dies. 
Beneficiaries of a traditional IRA must include in their 
gross income any taxable distributions they receive.
Inherited From Spouse
If you inherit a traditional IRA from your spouse, you gen-
erally have the following three choices.
1. T reat it as your own IRA by designating yourself as the 
account owner.
2. T reat it as your own by rolling it over into your IRA, or 
to the extent it is taxable, into a:
a. Qualified employer plan,
b. Qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a) 
plan),
c. T ax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan), 
or
d. Deferred compensation plan of a state or local 
government (section 457 plan).
3. T reat yourself as the beneficiary rather than treating 
the IRA as your own.
Treating it as your own.  Y ou will be considered to have 
chosen to treat the IRA as your own if:
• Contributions (including rollover contributions) are 
made to the inherited IRA, or
• Y ou don’t take the RMD for a year as a beneficiary of 
the IRA.
Y ou will only be considered to have chosen to treat the 
IRA as your own if:
• Y ou are the sole beneficiary of the IRA, and
• Y ou have an unlimited right to withdraw amounts from 
it.
However, if you receive a distribution from your de-
ceased spouse's IRA, you can roll that distribution over 
into your own IRA within the 60 -day time limit, as long as 
the distribution isn’t a required distribution, even if you 
aren’t the sole beneficiary of your deceased spouse's IRA. 
For more information, see When Must Y ou Withdraw As-
sets? (Required Minimum Distributions)  in Pub. 590 -B for 
more information on RMDs.
Inherited From Someone Other Than 
Spouse
If you inherit a traditional IRA from anyone other than your 
deceased spouse, you can’t treat the inherited IRA as 
your own. This means that you can’t make any contribu-
tions to the IRA. It also means you can’t roll over any 
amounts into or out of the inherited IRA. However, you can 
make a trustee -to-trustee transfer as long as the IRA into 
which amounts are being moved is set up and maintained 
in the name of the deceased IRA owner for the benefit of 
you as beneficiary. See Pub. 590-B for more information.
Like the original owner, you generally won’t owe tax on 
the assets in the IRA until you receive distributions from it. 
Y ou must begin receiving distributions from the IRA under 
the rules for distributions that apply to beneficiaries.
More information. For more information about rollovers, 
required distributions, and inherited IRAs, see:
• Rollovers, later, under Can Y ou Move Retirement Plan 
Assets;
• When Must Y ou Withdraw Assets? (Required Mini-
mum Distributions) in Pub. 590-B; and
• IRA Beneficiaries under When Must Y ou Withdraw As-
sets? (Required Minimum Distributions) in Pub. 590-B.
Can You Move Retirement Plan 
Assets?
Y ou can transfer, tax free, assets (money or property) from 
other retirement programs (including traditional IRAs) to a 
traditional IRA. Y ou can make the following kinds of trans-
fers.
• T ransfers from one trustee to another.
• Rollovers.
• T ransfers incident to a divorce.
This chapter discusses all three kinds of transfers.
Transfers to Roth IRAs.  Under certain conditions, you 
can move assets from a traditional IRA or from a designa-
ted Roth account to a Roth IRA. For more information 
about these transfers, see Converting From Any T radi-
tional IRA Into a Roth IRA , later in this chapter, and Can 
Y ou Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? in chapter 2.
Transfers to Roth IRAs from other retirement 
plans. Under certain conditions, you can move assets 
from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. For more in-
formation, see Can Y ou Move Amounts Into a Roth IRA? 
in chapter 2.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 21

--- PAGE 22 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 22 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Trustee-to-Trustee Transfer
A transfer of funds in your traditional IRA from one trustee 
directly to another, either at your request or at the trustee's 
request, isn’t a rollover. This includes the situation where 
the current trustee issues a check to the new trustee but 
gives it to you to deposit. Because there is no distribution 
to you, the transfer is tax free. Because it isn’t a rollover, it 
isn’t affected by the 1 -year waiting period required be-
tween rollovers. This waiting period is discussed later un-
der Rollover From One IRA Into Another.
For information about direct transfers from retirement 
programs other than traditional IRAs, see Direct rollover 
option, later.
Rollovers
Generally, a rollover is a tax-free distribution to you of cash 
or other assets from one retirement plan that you contrib-
ute to another retirement plan within 60 days you received 
the payment or distribution. The contribution to the second 
retirement plan is called a rollover contribution.
Note: An amount rolled over tax free from one retire-
ment plan to another is generally includible in income 
when it is distributed from the second plan.
Kinds of rollovers to a traditional IRA.  Y ou can roll 
over amounts from the following plans into a traditional 
IRA.
• A traditional IRA.
• An employer's qualified retirement plan for its employ-
ees.
• A deferred compensation plan of a state or local gov-
ernment (section 457 plan).
• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan).
Also, see T able 1-4.
Treatment of rollovers. Y ou can’t deduct a rollover con-
tribution, but you must report the rollover distribution on 
your tax return as discussed later under Reporting roll-
overs from IRAs  and Reporting rollovers from employer 
plans.
Rollover notice. A written explanation of rollover treat-
ment must be given to you by the plan (other than an IRA) 
making the distribution. See Written explanation to recipi-
ents, later, for more details.
Kinds of rollovers from a traditional IRA.  Y ou may be 
able to roll over, tax free, a distribution from your traditional 
IRA into a qualified plan. These plans include the Federal 
Thrift Savings Plan (for federal employees), deferred com-
pensation plans of state or local governments (section 
457 plans), and tax -sheltered annuity plans (section 
403(b) plans). The part of the distribution that you can roll 
over is the part that would otherwise be taxable (includible 
in your income). Qualified plans may, but aren’t required 
to, accept such rollovers.
Tax treatment of a rollover from a traditional IRA to 
an eligible retirement plan other than an IRA.  Ordina-
rily, when you have basis in your IRAs, any distribution is 
considered to include both nontaxable and taxable 
amounts. Without a special rule, the nontaxable portion of 
such a distribution couldn’t be rolled over. However, a spe-
cial rule treats a distribution you roll over into an eligible 
retirement plan as including only otherwise taxable 
amounts if the amount you either leave in your IRAs or 
don’t roll over is at least equal to your basis. The effect of 
this special rule is to make the amount in your traditional 
IRAs that you can roll over to an eligible retirement plan as 
large as possible.
Eligible retirement plans.  The following are consid-
ered eligible retirement plans.
• IRAs.
• Qualified trusts.
• Qualified employee annuity plans under section 
403(a).
• Deferred compensation plans of state and local gov-
ernments (section 457 plans).
• T ax-sheltered annuities (section 403(b) annuities).
Time Limit for Making a Rollover 
Contribution
Y ou must generally make the rollover contribution by the 
60th day after the day you receive the distribution from 
your traditional IRA or your employer's plan.
Example. Y ou received an eligible rollover distribution 
from your traditional IRA on June 30, 2025, that you intend 
to roll over to your 403(b) plan. T o postpone including the 
distribution in your income, you must complete the rollover 
by August 29, 2025, the 60th day following June 30.
The IRS may waive the 60 -day requirement where the 
failure to do so would be against equity or good con-
science, such as in the event of a casualty, a disaster, or 
another event beyond your reasonable control. For excep-
tions to the 60-day period, see Ways to get a waiver of the 
60-day rollover requirement, later.
Plan loan offset. A plan loan offset is the amount your 
employer plan account balance is reduced, or offset, to re-
pay a loan from the plan. How long you have to complete 
the rollover of a plan loan offset depends on what kind of 
plan loan offset you have. For tax years beginning after 
December 31, 2017, if you have a qualified plan loan off-
set, you will have until the due date (including extensions) 
for your tax return for the tax year in which the offset oc-
curs to complete your rollover. A qualified plan loan offset 
occurs when a plan loan in good standing is offset be-
cause your employer plan terminates, or because you 
sever from employment. If your plan loan offset occurs for 
any other reason, then you have 60 days from the date the 
offset occurs to complete your rollover.
Rollovers completed after the 60 -day period.  In the 
absence of a waiver, amounts not rolled over within the 
22 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 23 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 23 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
60-day period don’t qualify for tax -free rollover treatment. 
Y ou must treat them as a taxable distribution from either 
your IRA or your employer's plan. These amounts are tax-
able in the year distributed, even if the 60 -day period ex-
pires in the next year. Y ou may also have to pay a 10% ad-
ditional tax on early distributions as discussed under Early 
Distributions in Pub. 590-B.
Unless there is a waiver or an extension of the 60 -day 
rollover period, any contribution you make to your IRA 
more than 60 days after the distribution is a regular contri-
bution, not a rollover contribution.
Example. Y ou received a distribution in late December 
2025 from a traditional IRA that you don’t roll over into an-
other traditional IRA within the 60-day limit. Y ou don’t qual-
ify for a waiver. This distribution is taxable in 2025 even 
though the 60-day limit wasn’t up until 2026.
T able 1-4. Rollover Chart
The following chart indicates the rollovers that are permitted between various types of plans.
Roll To
Roth IRA1 Traditional
IRA2
Traditional 
SIMPLE
IRA
Roth 
SIMPLE
IRA
Govern-
mental 
457(b) 
Plan 
(pre-tax)
Qualified 
Plan3
 (pre-tax)
403(b) Plan
(pre-tax)
Designated 
Roth 
Account 
(401(k), 
403(b), or 
457(b))
Roth IRA1 Y es4 No No Y es,4 after 2 
years5
No No No No
Traditional 
IRA2
Y es6 Y es4 Y es,4 10 after 
2 years5
Y es6 after 2 
years5
Y es7 Y es Y es No
Traditional 
SIMPLE 
IRA
Y es,6 after 2 
years5
Y es,4 after 2 
years5
Y es4 Y es6 Y es,7 after 2 
years5
Y es, after 2 
years5
Y es, after 2 
years5
No
Roth 
SIMPLE 
IRA
Y es,4 after 2 
years5
No No Y es4 No No No No
Govern-
mental 
457(b) 
Plan 
(pre-tax)
Y es6 Y es Y es,10 after 
2 years5
Y es,6 after 2 
years5
Y es Y es Y es Y es6 8
Roll 
From
Qualified 
Plan3
 (pre-tax)
Y es6 Y es Y es,10 after 
2 years5
Y es,6 after 2 
years5
Y es7 Y es Y es Y es6 8
403(b) Plan
(pre-tax)
Y es6 Y es Y es,10 after 
2 years5
Y es,6 after 2 
years5
Y es7 Y es Y es Y es6 8
Designated
 Roth 
Account 
(401(k), 
403(b), or 
457(b))
Y es No No Y es, after 2 
years5
No No No Y es9
1 Roth IRAs include Roth IRAs that receive employer contributions from a SEP arrangement.
2 T raditional IRAs include traditional IRAs that receive employer contributions from a SEP arrangement.
3 Qualified plans include, for example, profit-sharing, 401(k), money purchase, and defined benefit plans.
4 Only one rollover in any 12-month period.
5 After the 2-year period beginning on the date you first participated in a qualified salary reduction arrangement under your 
employer’s SIMPLE IRA plan.
6 Must include in income.
7 Must have separate accounts.
8 Must be an in-plan rollover.
9 Any nontaxable amounts distributed must be rolled over by direct trustee-to-trustee transfer.
10 Applies to rollover contributions after December 18, 2015. For more information regarding retirement plans and rollovers, go to 
T ax Information for Retirement Plans.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 23

--- PAGE 24 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 24 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Ways to get a waiver of the 60 -day rollover require-
ment. There are three ways to obtain a waiver of the 
60-day rollover requirement.
• Y ou qualify for an automatic waiver.
• Y ou self-certify that you met the requirements of a 
waiver.
• Y ou request and receive a private letter ruling granting 
a waiver.
How do you qualify for an automatic waiver?  Y ou 
qualify for an automatic waiver if all of the following apply.
• The financial institution receives the funds on your be-
half before the end of the 60-day rollover period.
• Y ou followed all of the procedures set by the financial 
institution for depositing the funds into an IRA or other 
eligible retirement plan within the 60-day rollover pe-
riod (including giving instructions to deposit the funds 
into a plan or IRA).
• The funds aren’t deposited into a plan or IRA within 
the 60-day rollover period solely because of an error 
on the part of the financial institution.
• The funds are deposited into a plan or IRA within 1 
year from the beginning of the 60-day rollover period.
• It would have been a valid rollover if the financial insti-
tution had deposited the funds as instructed.
If you don’t qualify for an automatic waiver, you can use 
the self-certification procedure to make a late rollover con-
tribution or you can apply to the IRS for a waiver of the 
60-day rollover requirement.
How do you self-certify that you qualify for a waiver? 
Pursuant to Revenue Procedure 2020-46 in Internal Reve-
nue Bulletin 2020 -45, available at IRB 2020-45, you may 
make a written certification to a plan administrator or an 
IRA trustee that you missed the 60 -day rollover contribu-
tion deadline because of one or more of the reasons listed 
in Revenue Procedure 2020-46. A plan administrator or an 
IRA trustee may rely on the certification in accepting and 
reporting receipt of the rollover contribution. Y ou may 
make the certification by using the model letter in the ap-
pendix to the revenue procedure or by using a letter that is 
substantially similar. There is no IRS fee for self -certifica-
tion. A copy of the certification should be kept in your files 
and be available if requested on audit.
Note: A self-certification is not a waiver by the IRS of 
the 60 -day rollover requirement. If the IRS subsequently 
audits your income tax return, it may determine that you 
do not qualify for a waiver, in which case you may owe ad-
ditional taxes and penalties.
How do you apply for a waiver and what is the fee? 
Y ou can request a ruling according to the procedures out-
lined in Revenue Procedure 2003-16 and Revenue Proce-
dure 2026 -4. The appropriate user fee of $18,500 must 
accompany every request for a waiver of the 60 -day roll-
over requirement (see the user fee chart in Appendix A of 
Revenue Procedure 2026-4).
How does the IRS determine whether to grant a 
waiver in a private letter ruling?  In determining 
whether to issue a favorable letter ruling granting a waiver, 
the IRS will consider all of the relevant facts and circum-
stances, including:
• Whether errors were made by the financial institution, 
that is, the plan administrator, or IRA trustee, issuer, or 
custodian;
• Whether you were unable to complete the rollover 
within the 60-day period due to death, disability, hospi-
talization, incarceration, serious illness, restrictions im-
posed by a foreign country, or postal error;
• Whether you used the amount distributed; and
• How much time has passed since the date of the dis-
tribution.
Note: The IRS can waive only the 60 -day rollover re-
quirement and not the other requirements for a valid roll-
over contribution. For example, the IRS can’t waive the 
IRA one-rollover-per-year rule.
For more information on waivers of the 60 -day rollover 
requirement, go to RetirementPlans-FAQs.
Amount. The rules regarding the amount that can be rol-
led over within the 60 -day time period also apply to the 
amount that can be deposited due to a waiver. For exam-
ple, if you received $6,000 from your IRA, the most that 
you can deposit into an eligible retirement plan due to a 
waiver is $6,000.
Extension of rollover period. If an amount distributed to 
you from a traditional IRA or a qualified employer retire-
ment plan is a frozen deposit at any time during the 60-day 
period allowed for a rollover, two special rules extend the 
rollover period.
• The period during which the amount is a frozen de-
posit isn’t counted in the 60-day period.
• The 60-day period can’t end earlier than 10 days after 
the deposit is no longer frozen.
Frozen deposit. This is any deposit that can’t be with-
drawn from a financial institution because of either of the 
following reasons.
• The financial institution is bankrupt or insolvent.
• The state where the institution is located restricts with-
drawals because one or more financial institutions in 
the state are (or are about to be) bankrupt or insolvent.
Rollover From One IRA Into Another
Y ou can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from 
one traditional IRA if you reinvest them within 60 days in 
the same or another traditional IRA. Because this is a roll-
over, you can’t deduct the amount that you reinvest in an 
IRA.
24 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 25 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 25 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Y ou may be able to treat a contribution made to 
one type of IRA as having been made to a differ-
ent type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the 
contribution. See Recharacterizations in this chapter for 
more information.
Waiting period between rollovers.  Generally, if you 
make a tax-free rollover of any part of a distribution from a 
traditional IRA, you can’t, within a 1 -year period, make a 
tax-free rollover of any later distribution from that same 
IRA. Y ou also can’t make a tax-free rollover of any amount 
distributed, within the same 1 -year period, from the IRA 
into which you made the tax-free rollover.
The 1 -year period begins on the date you receive the 
IRA distribution, not on the date you roll it over into an IRA. 
Rules apply to the number of rollovers you can have with 
your traditional IRAs. See Application of one -roll-
over-per-year limitation, later.
Example. Y ou have two traditional IRAs, IRA -1 and 
IRA-2. In 2025, you made a tax -free rollover of a distribu-
tion from IRA -1 into a new traditional IRA (IRA -3). Y ou 
can’t, within 1 year of the distribution from IRA -1, make a 
tax-free rollover of any distribution from either IRA -1 or 
IRA-3 into another traditional IRA.
For 2025, the rollover from IRA -1 into IRA -3 prevents 
you from making a tax -free rollover from IRA -2 into any 
other traditional IRA. This is because in 2025 you are only 
allowed to make one rollover within a 1 -year period. So, 
when you make a rollover from IRA -1 to IRA -3, you can’t 
make a rollover from IRA-2 to any other traditional IRA.
Exception. An IRA distribution made from a failed fi-
nancial institution by the Federal Deposit Insurance Cor-
poration as receiver is not treated as a rollover for purpo-
ses of the one-rollover-per-year limitation, provided:
1. Neither the failed financial institution nor the depositor 
initiated the distribution, and
2. No financial institution has assumed the IRAs of the 
failed financial institution.
Application of one -rollover-per-year limitation.  Y ou 
can make only one rollover from an IRA to another (or the 
same) IRA in any 1 -year period regardless of the number 
of IRAs you own. The limit will apply by aggregating all of 
an individual's IRAs (whether traditional, Roth, or SIM-
PLE), effectively treating them as one IRA for purposes of 
the limit. However, trustee -to-trustee transfers between 
IRAs aren’t limited and rollovers from traditional IRAs to 
Roth IRAs (conversions) aren’t limited.
Example. Y ou have three traditional IRAs: IRA -1, 
IRA-2, and IRA -3. Y ou didn’t take any distributions from 
your IRAs in 2025. On January 1, 2026, you took a distri-
bution from IRA-1 and rolled it over into IRA-2 on the same 
day. For 2026, you can’t roll over any other 2026 IRA distri-
bution, including a rollover distribution involving IRA -3. 
This wouldn’t apply to a conversion.
The same property must be rolled over.  If property is 
distributed to you from an IRA and you complete the roll-
TIP
over by contributing property to an IRA, your rollover is tax 
free only if the property you contribute is the same prop-
erty that was distributed to you.
Partial rollovers.  If you withdraw assets from a tradi-
tional IRA, you can roll over part of the withdrawal tax free 
and keep the rest of it. The amount you keep will generally 
be taxable (except for the part that is a return of nonde-
ductible contributions). The amount you keep may be sub-
ject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions dis-
cussed later under What Acts Result in Penalties or 
Additional T axes.
Required distributions.  Amounts that must be distrib-
uted during a particular year under the required distribu-
tion rules (discussed in Pub. 590 -B) aren’t eligible for roll-
over treatment.
Inherited IRAs. If you inherit a traditional IRA from your 
spouse, you can generally roll it over, or you can choose to 
make the inherited IRA your own as discussed earlier un-
der What if Y ou Inherit an IRA.
Reporting rollovers from IRAs.  Report any rollover 
from one traditional IRA to the same or another traditional 
IRA on Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 1040 -NR, lines 4a and 
4b.
Enter the total amount of the distribution on Form 1040, 
1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 4a. If the total amount on Form 
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040 -NR, line 4a, was rolled over, en-
ter zero on Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 1040 -NR, line 4b. If 
the total distribution wasn't rolled over, enter the taxable 
portion of the part that wasn't rolled over on Form 1040, 
1040-SR, or 1040 -NR, line 4b. Check the box on line 4c 
for rollovers. See your tax return instructions.
If you rolled over the distribution into a qualified plan 
(other than an IRA) or you make the rollover in 2026, at-
tach a statement explaining what you did.
For information on how to figure the taxable portion, 
see Are Distributions T axable? in Pub. 590-B.
Rollover From Employer's Plan Into an IRA
Y ou can roll over into a traditional IRA all or part of an eligi-
ble rollover distribution you receive from your (or your de-
ceased spouse's):
• Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock 
bonus plan;
• Annuity plan;
• T ax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); or
• Governmental deferred compensation plan (section 
457 plan).
A qualified plan is one that meets the requirements of 
the Internal Revenue Code.
Eligible rollover distribution. Generally, an eligible roll-
over distribution is any distribution of all or part of the bal-
ance to your credit in a qualified retirement plan except the 
following.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 25

--- PAGE 26 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 26 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
1. An RMD (explained under When Must Y ou Withdraw 
Assets? (Required Minimum Distributions) in Pub. 
590-B).
2. A hardship distribution.
3. Any of a series of substantially equal periodic distribu-
tions paid at least once a year over:
a. Y our lifetime or life expectancy,
b. The lifetimes or life expectancies of you and your 
beneficiary, or
c. A period of 10 years or more.
4. Corrective distributions of excess contributions or ex-
cess deferrals, and any income allocable to the ex-
cess, or of excess annual additions and any allocable 
gains.
5. A loan treated as a distribution because it doesn’t sat-
isfy certain requirements either when made or later 
(such as upon default), unless the participant's ac-
crued benefits are reduced (offset) to repay the loan. 
See the discussion earlier of plan loan offsets (includ-
ing qualified plan loan offsets) under Time Limit for 
Making a Rollover Contribution.
6. Dividends on employer securities.
7. The cost of life insurance coverage.
Y our rollover into a traditional IRA may include both 
amounts that would be taxable and amounts that wouldn’t 
be taxable if they were distributed to you but not rolled 
over. T o the extent the distribution is rolled over into a tra-
ditional IRA, it isn’t includible in your income.
Any nontaxable amounts that you roll over into 
your traditional IRA become part of your basis 
(cost) in your IRAs. T o recover your basis when 
you take distributions from your IRA, you must complete 
Form 8606 for the year of the distribution. See Form 8606 
under Distributions Fully or Partly T axable in Pub. 590-B.
Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a desig-
nated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a de-
ceased employee, you can roll over all or part of an eligi-
ble rollover distribution from one of the types of plans 
listed above into a traditional IRA. Y ou must make the roll-
over by a direct trustee-to-trustee transfer into an inherited 
IRA.
Y ou will determine your RMDs in years after you make 
the rollover based on whether the employee died before 
their required beginning date for taking distributions from 
the plan. For more information, see Distributions after the 
employee's death  under T ax on Excess Accumulation in 
Pub. 575.
Written explanation to recipients. Before making an el-
igible rollover distribution, the administrator of a qualified 
retirement plan must provide you with a written explana-
tion. It must tell you about all of the following.
• Y our right to have the distribution paid tax free directly 
to a traditional IRA or another eligible retirement plan.
TIP
• The requirement to withhold tax from the distribution if 
it isn’t paid directly to a traditional IRA or another eligi-
ble retirement plan.
• The tax treatment of any part of the distribution that 
you roll over to a traditional IRA or another eligible re-
tirement plan within 60 days after you receive the dis-
tribution.
• Other qualified retirement plan rules, if they apply, in-
cluding those for lump-sum distributions, alternate 
payees, and cash or deferred arrangements.
• How the plan receiving the distribution differs from the 
plan making the distribution in its restrictions and tax 
consequences.
The plan administrator must provide you with this writ-
ten explanation no earlier than 90 days and no later than 
30 days before the distribution is made.
However, you can choose to have a distribution made 
less than 30 days after the explanation is provided as long 
as both of the following requirements are met.
• Y ou are given at least 30 days after the notice is provi-
ded to consider whether you want to elect a direct roll-
over.
• Y ou are given information that clearly states that you 
have this 30-day period to make the decision.
Contact the plan administrator if you have any questions 
regarding this information.
Withholding requirement.  Generally, if an eligible roll-
over distribution is paid directly to you, the payer must 
withhold 20% of it. This applies even if you plan to roll over 
the distribution to a traditional IRA. Y ou can avoid with-
holding by choosing the direct rollover option , discussed 
later.
Exceptions. The payer doesn’t have to withhold from 
an eligible rollover distribution paid to you if either of the 
following conditions applies.
• The distribution and all previous eligible rollover distri-
butions you received during your tax year from the 
same plan (or, at the payer's option, from all your em-
ployer's plans) total less than $200.
• The distribution consists solely of employer securities, 
plus cash of $200 or less in lieu of fractional shares.
The amount withheld is part of the distribution. If 
you roll over less than the full amount of the distri-
bution, you may have to include in your income 
the amount you don’t roll over. However, you can make up 
the amount withheld with funds from other sources.
Other withholding rules.  The 20% withholding re-
quirement doesn’t apply to distributions that aren’t eligible 
rollover distributions. However, other withholding rules ap-
ply to these distributions. The rules that apply depend on 
whether the distribution is a periodic distribution or a non-
periodic distribution. For either of these types of distribu-
tions, you can still choose not to have tax withheld. For 
more information, see Pub. 505.
CAUTION
!
26 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 27 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 27 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Direct rollover option.  Y our employer's qualified plan 
must give you the option to have any part of an eligible 
rollover distribution paid directly to a traditional IRA. The 
plan isn’t required to give you this option if your eligible 
rollover distributions are expected to total less than $200 
for the year.
Withholding. If you choose the direct rollover option, 
no tax is withheld from any part of the designated distribu-
tion that is directly paid to the trustee of the traditional IRA.
If any part is paid to you, the payer must withhold 20% 
of that part's taxable amount.
Choosing an option.  T able 1-5 may help you decide 
which distribution option to choose. Carefully compare the 
effects of each option.
Comparison of Payment to You Versus Di-
rect Rollover
Affected item
Result of a payment to 
you
Result of a
direct rollover
Withholding The payer must withhold 
20% of the taxable part.
There is no 
withholding.
Additional tax
If you are under age 591/2, 
a 10% additional tax may 
apply to the taxable part 
(including an amount 
equal to the tax withheld) 
that isn’t rolled over. 
There is no 10% 
additional tax. See 
Early Distributions in 
Pub. 590-B.
When to report
as income
Any taxable part 
(including the taxable part 
of any amount withheld) 
not rolled over is income 
to you in the year paid.
Any taxable part isn’t 
income to you until 
later distributed to you 
from the IRA.
If you decide to roll over any part of a distribution, 
the direct rollover option will generally be to your 
advantage. This is because you won’t have 20% 
withholding or be subject to the 10% additional tax under 
that option.
If you have a lump -sum distribution and don’t plan to roll 
over any part of it, the distribution may be eligible for spe-
cial tax treatment that could lower your tax for the distribu-
tion year. In that case, you may want to see Pub. 575 and 
Form 4972, T ax on Lump -Sum Distributions, and its in-
structions to determine whether your distribution qualifies 
for special tax treatment and, if so, to figure your tax under 
the special methods.
Y ou can then compare any advantages from using Form 
4972 to figure your tax on the lump -sum distribution with 
any advantages from rolling over all or part of the distribu-
tion. However, if you roll over any part of the lump-sum dis-
tribution, you can’t use the Form 4972 special tax treat-
ment for any part of the distribution.
Contributions you made to your employer's plan. 
Y ou can roll over a distribution of voluntary deductible em-
ployee contributions (DECs) you made to your employer's 
plan. Prior to January 1, 1987, employees could make and 
deduct these contributions to certain qualified employers' 
plans and government plans. These aren’t the same as an 
T able 1-5.
TIP
employee's elective contributions to a 401(k) plan, which 
aren’t deductible by the employee.
If you receive a distribution from your employer's quali-
fied plan of any part of the balance of your DECs and the 
earnings from them, you can roll over any part of the distri-
bution.
No waiting period between rollovers. The once-a-year 
limit on IRA -to-IRA rollovers doesn’t apply to eligible roll-
over distributions from an employer plan. Y ou can roll over 
more than one distribution from the same employer plan 
within a year.
IRA as a holding account (conduit IRA) for rollovers 
to other eligible plans. If you receive an eligible rollover 
distribution from your employer's plan, you can roll over 
part or all of it into one or more conduit IRAs. Y ou can later 
roll over those assets into a new employer's plan. Y ou can 
use a traditional IRA as a conduit IRA. Y ou can roll over 
part or all of the conduit IRA to a qualified plan, even if you 
make regular contributions to it or add funds from sources 
other than your employer's plan. However, if you make 
regular contributions to the conduit IRA or add funds from 
other sources, the qualified plan into which you move 
funds won’t be eligible for any optional tax treatment for 
which it might have otherwise qualified.
Property and cash received in a distribution.  If you 
receive both property and cash in an eligible rollover distri-
bution, you can roll over part or all of the property, part or 
all of the cash, or any combination of the two that you 
choose.
The same property (or sales proceeds) must be 
rolled over. If you receive property in an eligible rollover 
distribution from a qualified retirement plan, you can’t keep 
the property and contribute cash to a traditional IRA in 
place of the property. Y ou must either roll over the property 
or sell it and roll over the proceeds, as explained next.
Sale of property received in a distribution from a 
qualified plan.  Instead of rolling over a distribution of 
property other than cash, you can sell all or part of the 
property and roll over the amount you receive from the 
sale (the proceeds) into a traditional IRA. Y ou can’t keep 
the property and substitute your own funds for property 
you received.
Example. Y ou receive a total distribution from your em-
ployer's plan consisting of $10,000 cash and $15,000 
worth of property. Y ou decide to keep the property. Y ou 
can roll over to a traditional IRA the $10,000 cash re-
ceived, but you can’t roll over an additional $15,000 repre-
senting the value of the property you choose not to sell.
Treatment of gain or loss.  If you sell the distributed 
property and roll over all the proceeds into a traditional 
IRA, no gain or loss is recognized. The sale proceeds (in-
cluding any increase in value) are treated as part of the 
distribution and aren’t included in your gross income.
Example. On September 6, you received a lump -sum 
distribution from your employer's retirement plan of 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 27

--- PAGE 28 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 28 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
$50,000 in cash and $50,000 in stock. The stock wasn’t 
stock of your employer. On September 24, you sold the 
stock for $60,000. On October 6, you rolled over $110,000 
in cash ($50,000 from the original distribution and $60,000 
from the sale of stock). Y ou don’t include the $10,000 gain 
from the sale of stock as part of your income because you 
rolled over the entire amount into a traditional IRA.
Note: Special rules may apply to distributions of em-
ployer securities. For more information, see Figuring the 
T axable Amount under T axation of Nonperiodic Payments 
in Pub. 575.
Partial rollover. If you received both cash and property, 
or just property, but didn’t roll over the entire distribution, 
see Rollovers in Pub. 575.
Life insurance contract.  Y ou can’t roll over a life insur-
ance contract from a qualified plan into a traditional IRA.
Distributions received by a surviving spouse.  If you 
receive an eligible rollover distribution  (defined earlier) 
from your deceased spouse's eligible retirement plan (de-
fined earlier), you can roll over part or all of it into a tradi-
tional IRA. Y ou can also roll over all or any part of a distri-
bution of DECs.
Distributions under divorce or similar proceedings 
(alternate payees).  If you are the spouse or former 
spouse of an employee and you receive a distribution from 
a qualified retirement plan as a result of divorce or similar 
proceedings, you may be able to roll over all or part of it 
into a traditional IRA. T o qualify, the distribution must be:
• One that would have been an eligible rollover distribu-
tion (defined earlier) if it had been made to the em-
ployee, and
• Made under a qualified domestic relations order.
Qualified domestic relations order. A domestic rela-
tions order is a judgment, decree, or order (including ap-
proval of a property settlement agreement) that is issued 
under the domestic relations law of a state. A “qualified 
domestic relations order” gives to an alternate payee (a 
spouse, former spouse, child, or dependent of a partici-
pant in a retirement plan) the right to receive all or part of 
the benefits that would be payable to a participant under 
the plan. The order requires certain specific information, 
and it can’t alter the amount or form of the benefits of the 
plan.
Tax treatment if all of an eligible distribution isn’t 
rolled over.  Any part of an eligible rollover distribution 
that you keep is taxable in the year you receive it. If you 
don’t roll over any of it, special rules for lump-sum distribu-
tions may apply. See Lump-Sum Distributions under T axa-
tion of Nonperiodic Payments in Pub. 575. The 10% addi-
tional tax on early distributions, discussed later under 
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional T axes, doesn’t 
apply.
Keogh plans and rollovers.  If you are self -employed, 
you are generally treated as an employee for rollover pur-
poses. Consequently, if you receive an eligible rollover dis-
tribution from a Keogh plan (a qualified plan with at least 
one self-employed participant), you can roll over all or part 
of the distribution (including a lump -sum distribution) into 
a traditional IRA. For information on lump -sum distribu-
tions, see Lump-Sum Distributions under T axation of Non-
periodic Payments in Pub. 575.
More information. For more information about Keogh 
plans, see chapter 4 of Pub. 560.
Distribution from a tax -sheltered annuity.  If you re-
ceive an eligible rollover distribution from a tax -sheltered 
annuity plan (section 403(b) plan), you can roll it over into 
a traditional IRA.
Receipt of property other than money.  If you re-
ceive property other than money, you can sell the property 
and roll over the proceeds as discussed earlier.
Rollover from bond purchase plan.  If you redeem re-
tirement bonds that were distributed to you under a quali-
fied bond purchase plan, you can roll over tax free into a 
traditional IRA the part of the amount you receive that is 
more than your basis in the retirement bonds.
Reporting rollovers from employer plans.  Enter the 
total distribution (before income tax or other deductions 
were withheld) on Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 1040 -NR, 
line 5a. This amount should be shown in box 1 of Form 
1099-R. From this amount, subtract any contributions 
(usually shown in box 5 of Form 1099-R) that were taxable 
to you when made. From that result, subtract the amount 
that was rolled over either directly or within 60 days of re-
ceiving the distribution. Enter the remaining amount, even 
if zero, on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b. Also, 
check the box on line 5c for rollovers of Form 1040, 
1040-SR, or 1040-NR. See your tax return instructions.
Transfers Incident to Divorce
If an interest in a traditional IRA is transferred from your 
spouse or former spouse to you by a divorce or separate 
maintenance decree or a written document related to such 
a decree, the interest in the IRA, starting from the date of 
the transfer, is treated as your IRA. The transfer is tax free. 
For information about transfers of interests in employer 
plans, see Distributions under divorce or similar proceed-
ings (alternate payees)  under Rollover From Employer's 
Plan Into an IRA, earlier.
Transfer methods. There are two commonly used meth-
ods of transferring IRA assets to a spouse or former 
spouse. The methods are:
• Changing the name on the IRA, and
• Making a direct transfer of IRA assets.
Changing the name on the IRA.  If all the assets are 
to be transferred, you can make the transfer by changing 
the name on the IRA from your name to the name of your 
spouse or former spouse.
Direct transfer.  Under this method, you direct the 
trustee of the traditional IRA to transfer the affected assets 
28 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 29 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 29 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
directly to the trustee of a new or existing traditional IRA 
set up in the name of your spouse or former spouse.
If your spouse or former spouse is allowed to keep their 
portion of the IRA assets in your existing IRA, you can di-
rect the trustee to transfer the assets you are permitted to 
keep directly to a new or existing traditional IRA set up in 
your name. The name on the IRA containing your spou-
se's or former spouse's portion of the assets would then 
be changed to show their ownership.
If the transfer results in a change in the basis of 
the traditional IRA of either spouse, both spouses 
must file Form 8606 and follow the directions in 
the instructions for that form.
Converting From Any Traditional IRA 
Into a Roth IRA
Allowable conversions. Y ou can withdraw all or part of 
the assets from a traditional IRA and reinvest them (within 
60 days) in a Roth IRA. The amount that you withdraw and 
timely contribute (convert) to the Roth IRA is called a con-
version contribution. If properly (and timely) rolled over, 
the 10% additional tax on early distributions won’t apply. 
However, a part or all of the distribution from your tradi-
tional IRA may be included in gross income and subjected 
to ordinary income tax.
Y ou must roll over into the Roth IRA the same property 
you received from the traditional IRA. Y ou can roll over 
part of the withdrawal into a Roth IRA and keep the rest of 
it. The amount you keep will generally be taxable (except 
for the part that is a return of nondeductible contributions) 
and may be subject to the 10% additional tax on early dis-
tributions. See When Can Y ou Withdraw or Use Assets , 
later, for more information on distributions from traditional 
IRAs and Early Distributions in Pub. 590 -B for more infor-
mation on the tax on early distributions.
Periodic distributions. If you started taking substan-
tially equal periodic payments from a traditional IRA, you 
can convert the amounts in the traditional IRA to a Roth 
IRA and then continue the periodic payments. The 10% 
additional tax on early distributions won’t apply even if the 
distributions aren’t qualified distributions (as long as they 
are part of a series of substantially equal periodic pay-
ments).
Required distributions. Y ou can’t convert amounts that 
must be distributed from your traditional IRA for a particu-
lar year (including the calendar year in which you reach 
age 73) under the required distribution rules (discussed in 
Pub. 590-B).
Income. Y ou must include in your gross income distribu-
tions from a traditional IRA that you would have had to in-
clude in income if you hadn’t converted them into a Roth 
IRA. These amounts are normally included in income on 
your return for the year that you converted them from a tra-
ditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
Y ou don’t include in gross income any part of a distribu-
tion from a traditional IRA that is a return of your basis, as 
discussed under Are Distributions T axable? in Pub. 590-B.
CAUTION
!
If you must include any amount in your gross in-
come, you may have to increase your withholding 
or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.
Recharacterizations
Y ou may be able to treat a contribution made to one type 
of IRA as having been made to a different type of IRA. 
This is called recharacterizing the contribution.
T o recharacterize a contribution, you must generally 
have the contribution transferred from the first IRA (the 
one to which it was made) to the second IRA in a 
trustee-to-trustee transfer. If the transfer is made by the 
due date (including extensions) for your tax return for the 
tax year for which the contribution was made, you can 
elect to treat the contribution as having been originally 
made to the second IRA instead of to the first IRA. If you 
recharacterize your contribution, you must do all three of 
the following.
• Include in the transfer any net income allocable to the 
contribution. If there was a loss, the net income you 
must transfer may be a negative amount.
• Report the recharacterization on your tax return for the 
year during which the contribution was made.
• T reat the contribution as having been made to the sec-
ond IRA on the date that it was actually made to the 
first IRA.
No recharacterizations of conversions made in 2018 
or later. A conversion of a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA, 
and a rollover from any other eligible retirement plan to a 
Roth IRA, made in tax years beginning after December 
31, 2017, cannot be recharacterized as having been made 
to a traditional IRA. If you made a conversion in the 2017 
tax year, you had until the due date (including extensions) 
for filing the return for that tax year to recharacterize it.
No deduction allowed. Y ou can’t deduct the contribution 
to the first IRA. Any net income you transfer with the re-
characterized contribution is treated as earned in the sec-
ond IRA. The contribution won’t be treated as having been 
made to the second IRA to the extent any deduction was 
allowed for the contribution to the first IRA.
Conversion by rollover from traditional to Roth IRA. 
Y ou receive a distribution from a traditional IRA in 1 tax 
year. Y ou then roll it over into a Roth IRA within 60 days of 
the distribution from the traditional IRA but in the next 
year. For recharacterization purposes, you would treat this 
transaction as a contribution to the Roth IRA in the year of 
the distribution from the traditional IRA.
Effect of previous tax -free transfers. If an amount has 
been moved from one IRA to another in a tax-free transfer, 
such as a rollover, you generally can’t recharacterize the 
amount that was transferred. However, see T raditional IRA 
mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA next.
Traditional IRA mistakenly moved to SIMPLE IRA. 
If you mistakenly roll over or transfer an amount from a 
CAUTION
!
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 29

--- PAGE 30 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 30 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
traditional IRA to a SIMPLE IRA, you can later recharac-
terize the amount as a contribution to another traditional 
IRA.
Recharacterizing excess contributions.  Y ou can re-
characterize only actual contributions. If you are applying 
excess contributions for prior years as current contribu-
tions, you can recharacterize them only if the recharacteri-
zation would still be timely with respect to the tax year for 
which the applied contributions were actually made.
Example. Y ou contributed more than you were entitled 
to in 2025. Y ou can’t recharacterize the excess contribu-
tions you made in 2025 after April 15, 2026, because con-
tributions after that date are no longer timely for 2025.
Recharacterizing employer contributions.  Y ou can’t 
recharacterize employer contributions (including elective 
deferrals) under a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan 
as contributions to another IRA. SEP arrangements are 
discussed in chapter 2 of Pub. 560. SIMPLE plans are dis-
cussed in chapter 3 of Pub. 560.
Recharacterization not counted as rollover.  The re-
characterization of a contribution is not treated as a roll-
over for purposes of the 1 -year waiting period described 
earlier in this chapter under Rollover From One IRA Into 
Another. This is true even if the contribution would have 
been treated as a rollover contribution by the second IRA 
if it had been made directly to the second IRA rather than 
as a result of a recharacterization of a contribution to the 
first IRA.
How Do You Recharacterize a Contribution?
T o recharacterize a contribution, you must notify both the 
trustee of the first IRA (the one to which the contribution 
was actually made) and the trustee of the second IRA (the 
one to which the contribution is being moved) that you 
have elected to treat the contribution as having been 
made to the second IRA rather than the first. Y ou must 
make the notifications by the date of the transfer. Only one 
notification is required if both IRAs are maintained by the 
same trustee. The notification(s) must include all of the fol-
lowing information.
• The type and amount of the contribution to the first 
IRA that is to be recharacterized.
• The date on which the contribution was made to the 
first IRA and the year for which it was made.
• A direction to the trustee of the first IRA to transfer in a 
trustee-to-trustee transfer the amount of the contribu-
tion and any net income (or loss) allocable to the con-
tribution to the trustee of the second IRA.
• The name of the trustee of the first IRA and the name 
of the trustee of the second IRA.
• Any additional information needed to make the trans-
fer.
In most cases, the net income you must transfer is de-
termined by your IRA trustee or custodian. If you need to 
determine the applicable net income on IRA contributions 
made after 2025 that are recharacterized, use Worksheet 
1-3. See Regulations section 1. 408A-5 for more informa-
tion.
Timing. The election to recharacterize and the transfer 
must both take place on or before the due date (including 
extensions) for filing your tax return for the tax year for 
which the contribution was made to the first IRA.
Extension. Ordinarily, you must choose to recharac-
terize a contribution by the due date of the return or the 
due date including extensions. However, if you miss this 
deadline, you can still recharacterize a contribution if:
• Y our return was timely filed for the year the choice 
should have been made; and
• Y ou take appropriate corrective action within 6 months 
from the due date of your return, excluding extensions. 
For returns due April 15, 2026, this period ends on 
Determining the Amount of Net Income Due 
to an IRA Contribution and Total Amount To 
Be Recharacterized 
Worksheet 1-3.
Keep for Y our Records
1. Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2026 to be recharacterized ................ 1.  
2. Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the recharacterization (include any 
distributions, transfers, or recharacterizations made while the contribution was in the 
account) ..................................................................... 2.  
3. Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the time the contribution being 
recharacterized was made, including the amount of such contribution and any other 
contributions, transfers, or recharacterizations made while the contribution was in the 
account ...................................................................... 3.  
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 ....................................................... 4.  
5. Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) ...... 5.  
6. Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be 
recharacterized ................................................................ 6.  
7. Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable 
to it to be recharacterized ....................................................... 7.  
30 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 31 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 31 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
October 15, 2026. When the date for doing any act for 
tax purposes falls on a Saturday, Sunday, or legal holi-
day, the due date is delayed until the next business 
day.
Appropriate corrective action consists of:
• Notifying the trustee(s) of your intent to recharacterize,
• Providing the trustee with all necessary information, 
and
• Having the trustee transfer the contribution.
Once this is done, you must amend your return to show 
the recharacterization. Y ou have until the regular due date 
for amending a return to do this. Report the recharacteri-
zation on the amended return and write “Filed pursuant to 
section 301.9100-2” on the return. Y ou can file your amen-
ded return electronically if you are amending your tax re-
turn for the current or 2 prior tax periods and your original 
return was filed electronically. Returns filed before these 3 
tax years or tax returns filed by paper must be amended 
by filing an amended return by paper. See the Instructions 
for Form 1040-X for more information.
Decedent. The election to recharacterize can be 
made on behalf of a deceased IRA owner by the executor, 
the administrator, or another person responsible for filing 
the decedent's final income tax return.
Election can’t be changed.  After the transfer has taken 
place, you can’t change your election to recharacterize.
Same trustee. Recharacterizations made with the same 
trustee can be made by redesignating the first IRA as the 
second IRA, rather than transferring the account balance.
Reporting a Recharacterization
If you elect to recharacterize a contribution to one IRA as a 
contribution to another IRA, you must report the recharac-
terization on your tax return as directed by Form 8606 and 
its instructions. Y ou must treat the contribution as having 
been made to the second IRA.
More than one IRA.  If you have more than one IRA, fig-
ure the amount to be recharacterized only on the account 
from which you withdraw the contribution.
When Can You Withdraw or 
Use Assets?
Y ou can withdraw or use your traditional IRA assets at any 
time. However, a 10% additional tax generally applies if 
you withdraw or use IRA assets before you reach age 
591/2. This is explained under Age 591/2 Rule under Early 
Distributions in Pub. 590-B.
Y ou can generally make a tax-free withdrawal of contri-
butions if you do it before the due date for filing your tax 
return for the year in which you made them. This means 
that, even if you are under age 59 1/2, the 10% additional 
tax may not apply. These withdrawals are explained later.
Contributions Returned Before Due 
Date of Return
If you made IRA contributions in 2025, you can withdraw 
them tax free by the due date of your return. If you have an 
extension of time to file your return, you can withdraw 
them tax free by the extended due date. Y ou can do this if, 
for each contribution you withdraw, both of the following 
conditions apply.
• Y ou didn’t take a deduction for the contribution.
• Y ou withdraw any interest or other income earned on 
the contribution. Y ou can take into account any loss on 
the contribution while it was in the IRA when calculat-
ing the amount that must be withdrawn. If there was a 
loss, the net income earned on the contribution may 
be a negative amount.
Note: If you timely filed your 2025 tax return without 
withdrawing a contribution that you made in 2025, you can 
still have the contribution returned to you within 6 months 
of the due date of your 2025 tax return, excluding exten-
sions. If you do, file an amended return with “Filed pur-
suant to section 301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any 
related earnings on the amended return and include an 
explanation of the withdrawal. Make any other necessary 
changes on the amended return (for example, if you repor-
ted the contributions as excess contributions on your origi-
nal return, include an amended Form 5329 reflecting that 
the withdrawn contributions are no longer treated as hav-
ing been contributed).
In most cases, the net income you must withdraw is de-
termined by the IRA trustee or custodian. If you need to 
determine the applicable net income on IRA contributions 
made after 2025 that are returned to you, use Worksheet 
1-4. See Regulations section 1. 408-11 for more informa-
tion.
Example. On May 2, 2026, when your IRA is worth 
$4,800, you make a $1,600 regular contribution to your 
IRA. Y ou request that $400 of the May 2, 2026, contribu-
tion be returned to you. On February 2, 2027, when the 
IRA is worth $7,600, the IRA trustee distributes to you the 
$400 plus net income attributable to the contribution. No 
other contributions have been made to the IRA for 2026 
and no distributions have been made.
The adjusted opening balance is $6,400 ($4,800 + 
$1,600) and the adjusted closing balance is $7,600. The 
net income due to the May 2, 2026, contribution is $75 
($400 x ($7,600 – $6,400) ÷ $6,400). Therefore, the total 
to be distributed on February 2, 2027, is $475. This is 
shown on Worksheet 1-4. Example—Illustrated.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 31

--- PAGE 32 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 32 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Last-in first-out rule. If you made more than one regular 
contribution for the year, your last contribution is consid-
ered to be the one that is returned to you first.
Earnings Includible in Income
Y ou must include in income any earnings on the contribu-
tions you withdraw. Include the earnings in income for the 
year in which you made the contributions, not the year in 
which you withdraw them.
Generally, except for any part of a withdrawal that 
is a return of nondeductible contributions (basis), 
any withdrawal of your contributions after the due 
date (or extended due date) of your return will be treated 
as a taxable distribution. Excess contributions can also be 
recovered tax free as discussed under What Acts Result 
in Penalties or Additional T axes, later.
Early Distributions Tax
The 10% additional tax on distributions made before you 
reach age 59 1/2 doesn’t apply to these tax -free withdraw-
als of your contributions. However, the distribution of 
CAUTION
!
interest or other income must be reported on Form 5329 
and, unless the distribution qualifies for an exception to 
the age 59 1/2 rule, it will be subject to this tax. See Early 
Distributions under What Acts Result in Penalties or Addi-
tional T axes? in Pub. 590-B.
Excess Contributions Tax
If any part of these contributions is an excess contribution 
for 2024, it is subject to a 6% excise tax. Y ou won’t have to 
pay the 6% tax if any 2024 excess contribution was with-
drawn by April 15, 2025 (including extensions), and if any 
2025 excess contribution is withdrawn by April 15, 2026 
(including extensions). See Excess Contributions  under 
What Acts Result in Penalties or Additional T axes, later.
Y ou may be able to treat a contribution made to 
one type of IRA as having been made to a differ-
ent type of IRA. This is called recharacterizing the 
contribution. See Recharacterizations, earlier, for more in-
formation. 
TIP
Determining the Amount of Net Income Due 
to an IRA Contribution and Total Amount To 
Be Withdrawn From the IRA
Worksheet 1-4.
Keep for Y our Records
1. Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2026 to be returned to you ................. 1.  
2. Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the removal of the contribution, 
plus the amount of any distributions, transfers, and recharacterizations made while the 
contribution was in the IRA ...................................................... 2.  
3. Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately before the contribution was made, plus the 
amount of such contribution and any other contributions, transfers, and recharacterizations 
made while the contribution was in the IRA ......................................... 3.  
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 ....................................................... 4.  
5. Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) ...... 5.  
6. Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be 
returned ...................................................................... 6.  
7. Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable 
to it to be returned to you ........................................................ 7.  
Example—IllustratedWorksheet 1-4. Keep for Y our Records
1. Enter the amount of your IRA contribution for 2026 to be returned to you ................. 1. 400
2. Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately prior to the removal of the contribution, 
plus the amount of any distributions, transfers, and recharacterizations made while the 
contribution was in the IRA ...................................................... 2. 7,600
3. Enter the fair market value of the IRA immediately before the contribution was made, plus the 
amount of such contribution and any other contributions, transfers, and recharacterizations 
made while the contribution was in the IRA ......................................... 3. 6,400
4. Subtract line 3 from line 2 ....................................................... 4. 1,200
5. Divide line 4 by line 3. Enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places) ...... 5. 0.1875
6. Multiply line 1 by line 5. This is the net income attributable to the contribution to be 
returned ...................................................................... 6. 75
7. Add lines 1 and 6. This is the amount of the IRA contribution plus the net income attributable 
to it to be returned to you ....................................................... 7. 475
32 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 33 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 33 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
What Acts Result in Penalties 
or Additional Taxes?
The tax advantages of using traditional IRAs for retirement 
savings can be offset by additional taxes and penalties if 
you don’t follow the rules. There are excise taxes and 
other negative tax consequences for using your IRA funds 
in prohibited transactions. There are also additional taxes 
for the following activities.
• Investing in collectibles.
• Making excess contributions.
• T aking early distributions. See Pub. 590-B.
• Allowing excess amounts to accumulate (failing to 
take required distributions). See Pub. 590-B.
• Having unrelated business income.
There are penalties for overstating the amount of non-
deductible contributions and for failure to file Form 8606, if 
required.
This chapter discusses those acts that you should 
avoid and the additional taxes and other costs, including 
loss of IRA status, that apply if you don’t avoid those acts.
Prohibited Transactions
Generally, a prohibited transaction is any improper use of 
your traditional IRA account or annuity by you, your benefi-
ciary, or any disqualified person.
Disqualified persons include your fiduciary and mem-
bers of your family (spouse, ancestor, lineal descendant, 
and any spouse of a lineal descendant).
The following are some examples of prohibited transac-
tions with a traditional IRA.
• Borrowing money from it.
• Selling property to it.
• Using it as security for a loan.
• Buying property for personal use (present or future) 
with IRA funds.
If your IRA is invested in nonpublicly traded as-
sets or assets that you directly control, the risk of 
engaging in a prohibited transaction in connection 
with your account may be increased.
Fiduciary. For these purposes, a fiduciary includes any-
one who does any of the following.
• Exercises any discretionary authority or discretionary 
control in managing your IRA or exercises any author-
ity or control in managing or disposing of its assets.
• Provides investment advice to your IRA for a fee, or 
has any authority or responsibility to do so.
• Has any discretionary authority or discretionary re-
sponsibility in administering your IRA.
CAUTION
!
Effect on an IRA account.  Generally, if you or your ben-
eficiary engages in a prohibited transaction in connection 
with your traditional IRA account at any time during the 
year, the account stops being an IRA as of the first day of 
that year.
However, if you own more than one IRA, each IRA is 
treated as a separate account, and loss of IRA status only 
affects that IRA that participated in the prohibited transac-
tion.
Effect on you or your beneficiary. If your account stops 
being an IRA because you or your beneficiary engaged in 
a prohibited transaction, the account is treated as distrib-
uting all its assets to you at their fair market values on the 
first day of the year. If the total of those values is more 
than your basis in the IRA, you will have a taxable gain 
that is includible in your income. For information on figur-
ing your gain and reporting it in income, see Are Distribu-
tions T axable? in Pub. 590-B. The distribution may be sub-
ject to additional taxes or penalties.
Borrowing on an annuity contract.  If you borrow 
money against your traditional IRA annuity contract, you 
must include in your gross income the fair market value of 
the annuity contract as of the first day of your tax year. Y ou 
may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early distribu-
tions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Pledging an account as security. If you use a part of 
your traditional IRA account as security for a loan, that 
part is treated as a distribution and is included in your 
gross income. Y ou may have to pay the 10% additional tax 
on early distributions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Trust account set up by an employer or an employee 
association. Y our account or annuity doesn’t lose its IRA 
treatment if your employer or the employee association 
with whom you have your traditional IRA engages in a pro-
hibited transaction.
Owner participation. If you participate in the prohibi-
ted transaction with your employer or the association, your 
account is no longer treated as an IRA.
Taxes on prohibited transactions.  If someone other 
than the owner or beneficiary of a traditional IRA engages 
in a prohibited transaction, that person may be liable for 
certain taxes. In general, there is a 15% tax on the amount 
involved in the prohibited transaction and a 100% addi-
tional tax if the transaction isn’t corrected.
Loss of IRA status. If the traditional IRA ceases to be 
an IRA because of a prohibited transaction by you or your 
beneficiary, you or your beneficiary isn’t liable for these ex-
cise taxes. However, you or your beneficiary may have to 
pay other taxes, as discussed under Effect on you or your 
beneficiary, earlier.
Exempt Transactions
The Department of Labor (DOL) has authority to grant ad-
ministrative exemptions from the prohibited transaction 
provisions of the Employee Retirement Income Security 
Act (ERISA) and the Internal Revenue Code for a class of 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 33

--- PAGE 34 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 34 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
transactions or for individual transactions. In order to grant 
an administrative exemption, the DOL must make the fol-
lowing three determinations.
1. The exemption must be administratively feasible.
2. In the interest of the plan and its participants.
3. Protective of the rights of plan participants and benefi-
ciaries.
For additional information on prohibited transaction ex-
emptions, see the Exemptions page on the Department of 
Labor website. For information on filing and the process-
ing of prohibited transactions exemption applications, see 
Procedures Governing the Filing and Processing of 
Prohibited T ransaction Exemption Applications.
The following two types of transactions aren’t prohibited 
transactions if they meet the requirements that follow.
• Payments of cash, property, or other consideration by 
the trustee of your traditional IRA to you (or members 
of your family).
• Y our receipt of services at reduced or no cost from the 
bank where your traditional IRA is established or 
maintained.
Payments of cash, property, or other consideration. 
Even if a trustee makes payments to you or your family, 
there is no prohibited transaction if all three of the follow-
ing requirements are met.
1. The payments are for establishing a traditional IRA or 
for making additional contributions to it.
2. The IRA is established solely to benefit you, your 
spouse, and your or your spouse's beneficiaries.
3. During the year, the total fair market value of the pay-
ments you receive isn’t more than:
a. $10 for IRA deposits of less than $5,000, or
b. $20 for IRA deposits of $5,000 or more.
If the consideration is group -term life insurance, require-
ments (1) and (3) don’t apply if no more than $5,000 of the 
face value of the insurance is based on a dollar -for-dollar 
basis on the assets in your IRA.
Services received at reduced or no cost.  Even if a 
trustee provides services at reduced or no cost, there is 
no prohibited transaction if all of the following require-
ments are met.
• The traditional IRA qualifying you to receive the serv-
ices is established and maintained for the benefit of 
you, your spouse, and your or your spouse's benefi-
ciaries.
• The bank itself can legally offer the services.
• The services are provided in the ordinary course of 
business by the bank (or a bank affiliate) to customers 
who qualify but don’t maintain an IRA (or a Keogh 
plan).
• The determination, for a traditional IRA, of who quali-
fies for these services is based on an IRA (or a Keogh 
plan) deposit balance equal to the lowest qualifying 
balance for any other type of account.
• The rate of return on a traditional IRA investment that 
qualifies isn’t less than the return on an identical in-
vestment that could have been made at the same time 
at the same branch of the bank by a customer who 
isn’t eligible for (or doesn’t receive) these services.
Investment in Collectibles
If your traditional IRA invests in collectibles, the amount in-
vested is considered distributed to you in the year inves-
ted. Y ou may have to pay the 10% additional tax on early 
distributions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Any amounts that were considered to be distributed 
when the investment in the collectible was made, and 
which were included in your income at that time, aren’t in-
cluded in your income when the collectible is actually dis-
tributed from your IRA.
Collectibles. These include:
• Artworks,
• Rugs,
• Antiques,
• Metals,
• Gems,
• Stamps,
• Coins,
• Alcoholic beverages, and
• Certain other tangible personal property.
Exception. Y our IRA can invest in one, one -half, 
one-quarter, or one -tenth ounce U.S. gold coins, or 
one-ounce silver coins minted by the T reasury Depart-
ment. It can also invest in certain platinum coins and cer-
tain gold, silver, palladium, and platinum bullion.
Unrelated Business Income
An IRA is subject to tax on unrelated business income if it 
carries on an unrelated trade or business. An unrelated 
trade or business means any trade or business regularly 
carried on by the IRA or by a partnership of which it is a 
member. If the IRA has $1,000 or more of unrelated trade 
or business gross income, the IRA trustee is required to 
file a Form 990 -T , Exempt Organization Business Income 
T ax Return. The Form 990-T must be filed by the 15th day 
of the 4th month after the end of the IRA’s tax year. See 
Pub. 598, T ax on Unrelated Business Income of Exempt 
Organizations, for more information.
34 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 35 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 35 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Excess Contributions
Generally, an excess contribution is the amount contrib-
uted to your traditional IRAs for the year that is more than 
the smaller of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Y our taxable compensation for the year.
The taxable compensation limit applies whether your 
contributions are deductible or nondeductible.
An excess contribution could be the result of your con-
tribution, your spouse's contribution, your employer's con-
tribution, or an improper rollover contribution. If your em-
ployer makes contributions under a SEP arrangement on 
your behalf to a SEP IRA, see chapter 2 of Pub. 560.
Tax on Excess Contributions
In general, if the excess contributions for a year aren’t 
withdrawn by the date your return for the year is due (in-
cluding extensions), you are subject to a 6% tax. Y ou must 
pay the 6% tax each year on excess amounts that remain 
in your traditional IRA at the end of your tax year. The tax 
can’t be more than 6% of the combined value of all your 
IRAs as of the end of your tax year.
The additional tax is figured on Form 5329. For informa-
tion on filing Form 5329, see Reporting Additional T axes, 
later.
Example. For 2025, you are 45 years old and single. 
Y our compensation is $31,000 and you contributed $7,500 
to your traditional IRA. Y ou have made an excess contribu-
tion to your IRA of $500 ($7,500 minus the $7,000 limit). 
The contribution earned $5 interest in 2025 and $6 inter-
est in 2026 before the due date of the return, including ex-
tensions. Y ou don’t withdraw the $500 or the interest it 
earned by the due date of your return, including exten-
sions.
Y ou figure your additional tax for 2025 by multiplying 
the excess contribution ($500) shown on Form 5329, 
line 16, by 0.06, giving you an additional tax liability of 
$30. Y ou enter the tax on Form 5329, line 17, and on 
Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8. See the filled-in Form 
5329, later.
Excess Contributions Withdrawn by Due 
Date of Return
Y ou won’t have to pay the 6% tax if you withdraw an ex-
cess contribution made during a tax year and you also 
withdraw any interest or other income earned on the ex-
cess contribution. Y ou must complete your withdrawal by 
the date your tax return for that year is due, including ex-
tensions.
How to treat withdrawn contributions. Don’t include in 
your gross income an excess contribution that you with-
draw from your traditional IRA before your tax return is due 
if both of the following conditions are met.
• No deduction was allowed for the excess contribution.
• Y ou withdraw the interest or other income earned on 
the excess contribution.
Y ou can take into account any loss on the contribution 
while it was in the IRA when calculating the amount that 
must be withdrawn. If there was a loss, the net income you 
must withdraw may be a negative amount.
In most cases, the net income you must transfer will be 
determined by your IRA trustee or custodian. If you need 
to determine the applicable net income you need to with-
draw, you can use the same method that was used on 
Worksheet 1-3.
If you timely filed your 2025 tax return without withdraw-
ing a contribution that you made in 2025, you can still have 
the contribution returned to you within 6 months of the due 
date of your 2025 tax return, excluding extensions. If you 
do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section 
301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any related earn-
ings on the amended return and include an explanation of 
the withdrawal. Make any other necessary changes on the 
amended return (for example, if you reported the contribu-
tions as excess contributions on your original return, in-
clude an amended Form 5329 reflecting that the with-
drawn contributions are no longer treated as having been 
contributed).
How to treat withdrawn interest or other income.  Y ou 
must include in your gross income the interest or other in-
come that was earned on the excess contribution. Report 
it on your return for the year in which the excess contribu-
tion was made. Y our withdrawal of interest or other income 
may be subject to an additional 10% tax on early distribu-
tions discussed in Pub. 590-B.
Beginning on or after December 29, 2022, the 10% ad-
ditional tax will not apply to your withdrawal of interest or 
other income, if withdrawn on or before the due date (in-
cluding extensions) of the income tax return. See Pub. 
590-B for more information.
Form 1099 -R. Y ou will receive Form 1099 -R indicating 
the amount of the withdrawal. If the excess contribution 
was made in a previous tax year, the form will indicate the 
year in which the earnings are taxable.
Example. Maria, age 35, made an excess contribution 
in 2025 of $1,000, which she withdrew by April 15, 2026, 
the due date of her return. At the same time, she also with-
drew the $50 income that was earned on the $1,000. She 
must include the $50 in her gross income for 2025 (the 
year in which the excess contribution was made).
Maria doesn’t have to report the excess contribution as 
income or pay the 6% additional tax because she with-
drew the excess contribution by the due date of her return. 
Maria receives a Form 1099 -R showing that the earnings 
are taxable for 2025.
Excess Contributions Withdrawn After Due 
Date of Return
In general, you must include all distributions (withdrawals) 
from your traditional IRA in your gross income. However, if 
the following conditions are met, you can withdraw excess 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 35

--- PAGE 36 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 36 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
contributions from your IRA and not include the amount 
withdrawn in your gross income.
• T otal contributions (other than rollover contributions) 
for 2025 to your IRA weren’t more than $7,000 ($8,000 
if you are age 50 or older).
• Y ou didn’t take a deduction for the excess contribution 
being withdrawn.
The withdrawal can take place at any time, even after the 
due date, including extensions, for filing your tax return for 
the year.
Excess contribution deducted in an earlier year.  If 
you deducted an excess contribution in an earlier year for 
which the total contributions weren’t more than the maxi-
mum deductible amount for that year (see the following ta-
ble), you can still remove the excess from your traditional 
IRA and not include it in your gross income. T o do this, file 
Form 1040 -X for that year and don’t deduct the excess 
contribution on the amended return. Generally, you can 
file an amended return within 3 years after you filed your 
return, or 2 years from the time the tax was paid, which-
ever is later.
Year(s) Contribution limit Contribution limit 
if age 50 or older 
at the end of the 
year
2024 $7,000 $8,000
2023 $6,500 $7,500
2019 through 2022 $6,000 $7,000
2013 through 2018 $5,500 $6,500
2008 through 2012 $5,000 $6,000
2006 or 2007 $4,000 $5,000
2005 $4,000 $4,500
2002 through 2004 $3,000 $3,500
1997 through 2001 $2,000 —
before 1997 $2,250 —
Excess due to incorrect rollover information. If an ex-
cess contribution in your traditional IRA is the result of a 
rollover and the excess occurred because the information 
the plan was required to give you was incorrect, you can 
withdraw the excess contribution. The limits mentioned 
above are increased by the amount of the excess that is 
due to the incorrect information. Y ou will have to amend 
your return for the year in which the excess occurred to 
correct the reporting of the rollover amounts in that year. 
Don’t include in your gross income the part of the excess 
contribution caused by the incorrect information.
Deducting an Excess Contribution in a Later 
Year
Y ou can’t apply an excess contribution to an earlier year 
even if you contributed less than the maximum amount al-
lowable for the earlier year. However, you may be able to 
apply it to a later year if the contributions for that later year 
are less than the maximum allowed for that year.
Y ou can deduct excess contributions for previous years 
that are still in your traditional IRA. The amount you can 
deduct this year is the lesser of the following two amounts.
• Y our maximum IRA deduction for this year minus any 
amounts contributed to your traditional IRAs for this 
year.
• The total excess contributions in your IRAs at the be-
ginning of this year.
This method lets you avoid making a withdrawal. It 
doesn’t, however, let you avoid the 6% tax on any excess 
contributions remaining at the end of a tax year.
T o figure the amount of excess contributions for previ-
ous years that you can deduct this year, see Worksheet 
1-5.
Excess Contributions Deductible This 
Year
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess 
contributions from prior years you can deduct this year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current 
year ................................ 1.  
2. IRA contributions for the current 
year ................................ 2.  
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If zero or less, 
enter -0- ............................. 3.  
4. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of 
year ................................ 4.  
5. Enter the lesser of line 3 or line 4. This is 
the amount of excess contributions for 
previous years that you can deduct this 
year ................................ 5.  
Example. Y ou were entitled to contribute to your tradi-
tional IRA and deduct $1,000 in 2024 and $1,500 in 2025 
(the amounts of your taxable compensation for these 
years). For 2024, you contributed $1,400 but could deduct 
only $1,000. In 2024, $400 is an excess contribution sub-
ject to the 6% tax. However, you wouldn’t have to pay the 
6% tax if you withdrew the excess (including any earnings) 
before the due date of your 2024 return. Because you 
didn’t withdraw the excess, you owe excise tax of $24 for 
2024. T o avoid the excise tax for 2025, you can correct the 
$400 excess amount from 2024 in 2025 if your actual con-
tributions are only $1,100 for 2024 (the allowable deducti-
ble contribution of $1,500 minus the $400 excess from 
2024 you want to treat as a deductible contribution in 
2025). Y ou can deduct $1,500 in 2025 (the $1,100 ac-
tually contributed plus the $400 excess contribution from 
2024). This is shown on Worksheet 1-5. Example —Illus-
trated.
Worksheet 1-5.
36 Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 37 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 37 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
P aul Jones 003-00-0000
500
500
30
Form 5329 2025
Additional Taxes on Qualiﬁed Plans 
(Including IRAs) and Other Tax-Favored Accounts
Department of the Treasury  
Internal Revenue Service 
Attach to Form 1040, 1040-SR, 1040-NR, or 1041. 
Go to www.irs.gov/Form5329 for instructions and the latest information.
OMB No. 1545-0074
Attachment   
Sequence No. 29
Name of individual subject to additional tax. If married /f_iling jointly, see instructions. Your social security number 
Fill in Your Address Only 
if You Are Filing This 
Form by Itself and Not 
With Your Tax Return
Home address (number and street), or P.O. box if mail is not delivered to your home Apt. no.
City, town or post of/f_ice, state, and ZIP code. If you have a foreign address, also complete the spaces below. See instructions.
If this is an amended 
return, check here
Foreign country name Foreign province/state/county Foreign postal code
If you only owe the additional 10% tax on the full amount of the early distributions, you may be able to report this tax directly on 
Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8, without /f_iling Form 5329. See instructions.
Part I Additional Tax on Early Distributions. Complete this part if you took a taxable distribution (other than a quali/f_ied disaster 
recovery distribution) before you reached age 59½ from a quali/f_ied retirement plan (including an IRA) or modi/f_ied endowment contract 
(unless you are reporting this tax directly on Schedule 2 (Form 1040)—see above). You may also have to complete this part to indicate 
that you qualify for an exception to the additional tax on early distributions or for certain Roth IRA distributions. See instructions.
1 Early distributions includible in income (see instructions). For Roth IRA distributions, see instructions . 1 
2 Early distributions included on line 1 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions).
Enter the appropriate exception number from the instructions: . . . . . . . . . . 2 
3 Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 2 from line 1 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 
4 Additional tax. Enter 10% (0.10) of line 3. Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . . 4 
Caution: If any part of the amount on line 3 was a distribution from a SIMPLE IRA, you may have to 
include 25% of that amount on line 4 instead of 10%. See instructions.
Part II Additional Tax on Certain Distributions From Education Accounts and ABLE Accounts. Complete this part 
if you included an amount in income, on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8z, from a Coverdell education savings account 
(ESA) or a quali/f_ied tuition program (QTP), or on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 8q, from an ABLE account.
5 Distributions included in income from a Coverdell ESA, a QTP, or an ABLE account . . . . . . 5 
6 Distributions included on line 5 that are not subject to the additional tax (see instructions) . . . . 6 
7 Amount subject to additional tax. Subtract line 6 from line 5 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 
8 Additional tax. Enter 10% (0.10) of line 7. Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . . 8 
Part III Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Traditional IRAs. Complete this part if you contributed more to your 
traditional IRAs (which include your traditional SEP IRAs and traditional SIMPLE IRAs) for 2025 than is allowable or you 
had an amount on line 17 of your 2024 Form 5329.
9 Enter your excess contributions from line 16 of your 2024 Form 5329. See instructions. If zero, go to line 15 9 
10 If your traditional IRA contributions for 2025 are less than your maximum
allowable contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . . . . 10 
11 2025 traditional IRA distributions included in income (see instructions) . . . 11 
12 2025 distributions of prior year excess contributions to traditional IRAs (see 
instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 
13 Add lines 10, 11, and 12 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 
14 Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 13 from line 9. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . 14 
15 Excess contributions for 2025 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 
16 Total excess contributions. Add lines 14 and 15 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 
17 Additional tax. Enter 6% (0.06) of the smaller of line 16 or the value of your traditional IRAs on December 31, 
2025 (including 2025 contributions made in 2026). Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . . 17 
Part IV Additional Tax on Excess Contributions to Roth IRAs. Complete this part if you contributed more to your Roth 
IRAs (which include your Roth SEP IRAs and Roth SIMPLE IRAs) for 2025 than is allowable or you had an amount on line 
25 of your 2024 Form 5329.
18 Enter your excess contributions from line 24 of your 2024 Form 5329. See instructions. If zero, go to line 23 18 
19 If your Roth IRA contributions for 2025 are less than your maximum allowable
contribution, see instructions. Otherwise, enter -0- . . . . . . . . . 19 
20 2025 distributions from your Roth IRAs (see instructions) . . . . . . . 20 
21 Add lines 19 and 20 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 
22 Prior year excess contributions. Subtract line 21 from line 18. If zero or less, enter -0- . . . . . . 22 
23 Excess contributions for 2025 (see instructions) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 
24 Total excess contributions. Add lines 22 and 23 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24 
25 Additional tax. Enter 6% (0.06) of the smaller of line 24 or the value of your Roth IRAs on December 31, 2025 
(including 2025 contributions made in 2026). Include this amount on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8 . . . 25 
For Privacy Act and Paperwork Reduction Act Notice, see your tax return instructions. Cat. No. 13329Q Form 5329 (2025) Created 6/12/25 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 1 T raditional IRAs 37

--- PAGE 38 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 38 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Worksheet 1-5. Example—Illustrated
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess 
contributions from prior years you can deduct this year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current 
year ................................ 1. 1,500
2. IRA contributions for the current 
year ................................ 2. 1,100
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1. If zero or less, 
enter -0- ............................. 3. 400
4. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of 
year ................................ 4. 400
5. Enter the lesser of line 3 or line 4. This is 
the amount of excess contributions for 
previous years that you can deduct this 
year ................................ 5. 400
Closed tax year. A special rule applies if you incorrectly 
deducted part of the excess contribution in a closed tax 
year (one for which the period to assess a tax deficiency 
has expired). The amount allowable as a traditional IRA 
deduction for a later correction year (the year you contrib-
ute less than the allowable amount) must be reduced by 
the amount of the excess contribution deducted in the 
closed year.
T o figure the amount of excess contributions for previ-
ous years that you can deduct this year if you incorrectly 
deducted part of the excess contribution in a closed tax 
year, see Worksheet 1-6.
Excess Contributions Deductible This 
Year if Any Were Deducted in a 
Closed Tax Year
Use this worksheet to figure the amount of excess 
contributions for prior years that you can deduct this year if 
you incorrectly deducted excess contributions in a closed 
tax year.
1. Maximum IRA deduction for the current 
year ................................ 1.  
2. IRA contributions for the current 
year ................................ 2.  
3. If line 2 is less than line 1, enter any excess 
contributions that were deducted in a 
closed tax year. Otherwise, enter -0- ..... 3.  
4. Subtract line 3 from line 1 .............. 4.  
5. Subtract line 2 from line 4. If zero or less, 
enter -0- ............................. 5.  
6. Excess contributions in IRA at beginning of 
year ................................ 6.  
7. Enter the lesser of line 5 or line 6. This is 
the amount of excess contributions for 
previous years that you can deduct this 
year ................................ 7.  
Worksheet 1-6.
Reporting Additional Taxes
Generally, you must use Form 5329 to report the tax on 
excess contributions, early distributions, and excess accu-
mulations.
Filing a tax return.  If you must file an individual income 
tax return, complete Form 5329 and attach it to your Form 
1040, 1040 -SR, or 1040 -NR. Enter the total additional 
taxes due on Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8.
Not filing a tax return.  If you don’t have to file a individ-
ual income tax return, but do have to pay one of the addi-
tional taxes mentioned earlier, file the completed Form 
5329 with the IRS at the time and place you would have 
filed Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 1040 -NR. If you file Form 
5329 by itself, then it cannot be filed electronically. Be sure 
to include your address on page 1 and your signature and 
date on page 3. For payment options, see the Instructions 
for Form 1040 or the Instructions for Form 1040 -NR, or go 
to IRS.gov/Payments to see all your payment options.
Form 5329 not required. Y ou don’t have to use Form 
5329 if either of the following situations exists. 
• Distribution code 1 is correctly shown in box 7 of 
Forms 1099-R. If distribution code 1 is correctly shown 
in box 7 of all your Forms 1099-R and you owe the ad-
ditional tax on the full amount shown on each Form 
1099-R, you don’t have to file Form 5239. Instead, see 
the instructions for Schedule 2 (Form 1040), line 8, in 
the Instructions for Form 1040, or the Instructions for 
Form 1040-NR, for how to report the 10% additional 
tax directly on that line.
• If you rolled over part or all of a distribution from a 
qualified retirement plan, the part rolled over isn’t sub-
ject to the 10% additional tax on early distributions. 
See the instructions for Form 1040, or 1040-NR, lines 
4a, 4b, and 4c or lines 5a, 5b, and 5c, for how to report 
the rollover.
2.
Roth IRAs
Reminders
Deemed IRAs.  For plan years beginning after 2002, a 
qualified employer plan (retirement plan) can maintain a 
separate account or annuity under the plan (a deemed 
IRA) to receive voluntary employee contributions. If the 
separate account or annuity otherwise meets the require-
ments of an IRA, it will be subject only to IRA rules. An 
employee's account can be treated as a traditional IRA or 
a Roth IRA.
38 Chapter 2 Roth IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 39 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 39 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
For this purpose, a “qualified employer plan” includes:
• A qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock bonus 
plan (section 401(a) plan);
• A qualified employee annuity plan (section 403(a) 
plan);
• A tax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); and
• A deferred compensation plan (section 457 plan) 
maintained by a state, a political subdivision of a state, 
or an agency or instrumentality of a state or political 
subdivision of a state.
Designated Roth accounts.  Designated Roth accounts 
are separate accounts under section 401(k), 403(b), or 
457(b) plans that accept elective deferrals that are refer-
red to as “Roth contributions.” These elective deferrals are 
included in your income, but qualified distributions from 
these accounts aren’t included in your income. Designa-
ted Roth accounts aren’t IRAs and shouldn’t be confused 
with Roth IRAs. Contributions, up to their respective limits, 
can be made to Roth IRAs and designated Roth accounts 
according to your eligibility to participate. A contribution to 
one doesn’t impact your eligibility to contribute to the 
other. See Pub. 575 for more information on designated 
Roth accounts.
Introduction
Regardless of your age, you may be able to establish and 
make nondeductible contributions to an individual retire-
ment plan called a Roth IRA.
Contributions not reported.  Y ou don’t report Roth IRA 
contributions on your return.
What Is a Roth IRA?
A Roth IRA is an individual retirement plan that, except as 
explained in this chapter, is subject to the rules that apply 
to a traditional IRA (defined next). It can be either an ac-
count or an annuity. Individual retirement accounts  and 
annuities are described in chapter 1 under How Can a T ra-
ditional IRA Be Opened. Roth IRAs include Roth IRAs that 
receive employer contributions from SEP arrangements.
T o be a Roth IRA, the account or annuity must be des-
ignated as a Roth IRA when it is opened.
Unlike a traditional IRA, you can’t deduct contributions 
to a Roth IRA. But, if you satisfy the requirements, quali-
fied distributions (discussed in chapter 2 of Pub. 590 -B) 
are tax free, and if you choose, you can leave amounts in 
your Roth IRA as long as you live.
Beginning in 2023, SEP and SIMPLE IRAs can be 
designated as Roth IRAs.
Traditional IRA. A traditional IRA is any IRA that isn’t a 
Roth IRA or SIMPLE IRA. T raditional IRAs are discussed 
in chapter 1. SIMPLE IRAs are discussed in Pub. 560.
TIP
When Can a Roth IRA Be 
Opened?
Y ou can open a Roth IRA at any time. However, the time 
for making contributions for any year is limited. See When 
Can Y ou Make Contributions, later, under Can Y ou Con-
tribute to a Roth IRA.
Can You Contribute to a Roth 
IRA?
Generally, you can contribute to a Roth IRA if you have 
taxable compensation (defined later) and your modified 
AGI (defined later) is less than:
• $246,000 for married filing jointly or qualifying surviv-
ing spouse;
• $165,000 for single, head of household, or married fil-
ing separately and you didn’t live with your spouse at 
any time during the year; and
• $10,000 for married filing separately and you lived with 
your spouse at any time during the year.
Y ou may be able to claim a credit for contributions 
to your Roth IRA. For more information, see chap-
ter 3.
Is there an age limit for contributions?  Contributions 
can be made to your Roth IRA regardless of your age.
Can you contribute to a Roth IRA for your spouse? 
Y ou can contribute to a Roth IRA for your spouse, provi-
ded the contributions satisfy the Kay Bailey Hutchison 
Spousal IRA limit discussed in chapter 1 under How Much 
Can Be Contributed, you file jointly, and your modified AGI 
is less than $246,000.
Compensation. Compensation includes wages, salaries, 
tips, professional fees, bonuses, and other amounts re-
ceived for providing personal services. It also includes 
commissions, self -employment income, nontaxable com-
bat pay, military differential pay, taxable alimony and sepa-
rate maintenance payments, and taxable non -tuition fel-
lowship and stipend payments. For more information, see 
What Is Compensation under Who Can Open a T raditional 
IRA? in chapter 1.
Modified AGI. Y our modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes 
is your AGI as shown on your return with some adjust-
ments. Use Worksheet 2 -1 to determine your modified 
AGI.
Don’t subtract conversion income when figuring 
your other AGI -based phaseouts and taxable in-
come, such as your deduction for medical and 
dental expenses. Subtract them from AGI only for the pur-
pose of figuring your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes.
TIP
CAUTION
!
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 2 Roth IRAs 39

--- PAGE 40 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 40 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
How Much Can Be Contributed?
The contribution limit for Roth IRAs generally depends on 
whether contributions are made only to Roth IRAs or to 
both traditional IRAs and Roth IRAs.
Roth IRAs only.  If contributions are made only to Roth 
IRAs, your contribution limit is generally the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Y our taxable compensation.
However, if your modified AGI is above a certain 
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced, as ex-
plained later under Contribution limit reduced.
Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs.  If contributions are 
made to both Roth IRAs and traditional IRAs established 
for your benefit, your contribution limit for Roth IRAs is 
generally the same as your limit would be if contributions 
were made only to Roth IRAs, but then reduced by all con-
tributions for the year to all IRAs other than Roth IRAs. 
Employer contributions under a SEP arrangement or SIM-
PLE IRA plan don’t affect this limit.
This means that your contribution limit is the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older) minus all 
contributions (other than employer contributions under 
a SEP arrangement or SIMPLE IRA plan) for the year 
to all IRAs other than Roth IRAs, or
• Y our taxable compensation minus all contributions 
(other than employer contributions under a SEP ar-
rangement or SIMPLE IRA plan) for the year to all 
IRAs other than Roth IRAs.
However, if your modified AGI is above a certain 
amount, your contribution limit may be reduced, as ex-
plained later under Contribution limit reduced.
SEP arrangements and SIMPLE plans are discussed in 
Pub. 560.
Repayment of reservist distributions.  Y ou can repay 
qualified reservist distributions even if the repayments 
would cause your total contributions to the Roth IRA to be 
more than the general limit on contributions. However, the 
total repayments can’t be more than the amount of your 
distribution.
Note: If you make repayments of qualified reservist 
distributions to a Roth IRA, increase your basis in the Roth 
IRA by the amount of the repayment. For more informa-
tion, see Qualified reservist repayments under How Much 
Can Be Contributed? in chapter 1.
Contribution limit reduced.  If your modified AGI is 
above a certain amount, your contribution limit is gradually 
reduced. Use T able 2-1 to determine if this reduction ap-
plies to you.
Figuring the reduction.  If the amount you can con-
tribute must be reduced, use Worksheet 2-2 to figure your 
reduced contribution limit.
Round your reduced contribution limit up to the 
nearest $10. If your reduced contribution limit is 
more than $0, but less than $200, increase the 
limit to $200.
Example. Y ou are a 45-year-old, single individual with 
taxable compensation of $150,000. Y ou want to make the 
maximum allowable contribution to your Roth IRA for 
2025. Y our modified AGI for 2025 is $150,000. Y ou haven’t 
contributed to any traditional IRA, so the maximum contri-
bution limit before the modified AGI reduction is $7,000. 
Y ou figure your reduced Roth IRA contribution of $6,530 
as shown on Worksheet 2-2. Example—Illustrated.
TIP
40 Chapter 2 Roth IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 41 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 41 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Worksheet 2-1. Modified Adjusted Gross Income for Roth IRA Purposes
Use this worksheet to figure your modified adjusted gross income for Roth IRA purposes.
1. Enter your adjusted gross income from Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 
1040-NR, line 11a ............................................................ 1.  
2. Enter any income resulting from the conversion of an IRA (other than a 
Roth IRA) to a Roth IRA (included on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, 
line 4b) and a rollover from a qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA 
(included on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR, line 5b) ................... 2.  
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 .................................................... 3.  
4. Enter any traditional IRA deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), 
line 20 ......................................................................... 4.  
5. Enter any student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), 
line 21 ......................................................................... 5.  
6. Enter any foreign earned income exclusion and/or housing exclusion from 
Form 2555, line 45 ............................................................ 6.  
7. Enter any foreign housing deduction from Form 2555, line 50 ............. 7.  
8. Enter any excludable qualified savings bond interest from Form 8815, 
line 14 ......................................................................... 8.  
9. Enter any excluded employer-provided adoption benefits from Form 
8839, line 30 .................................................................. 9.  
10. Add the amounts on lines 3 through 9 ...................................... 10.  
11. Enter:
• $246,000 if married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $10,000 if married filing separately and you lived with your spouse at 
any time during the year, or
• $165,000 for all others .......................... .......................... 11.  
Is the amount on line 10 more than the amount on line 11?
If “Y es,” see the Note below.
If “No,” the amount on line 10 is your modified adjusted gross income 
for Roth IRA purposes.
Note: If the amount on line 10 is more than the amount on line 11 and you have other income 
or loss items, such as social security income or passive activity losses, that are subject to 
AGI-based phaseouts, you can refigure your AGI solely for the purpose of figuring your 
modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes. (If you receive social security benefits, use Worksheet 1 
in Appendix B to refigure your AGI.) Then, go to line 3 above in this Worksheet 2-1 to refigure 
your modified AGI. If you don’t have other income or loss items subject to AGI-based 
phaseouts, your modified adjusted gross income for Roth IRA purposes is the amount on 
line 10 above. 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 2 Roth IRAs 41

--- PAGE 42 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 42 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
T able 2-1. Effect of Modified AGI on Roth IRA Contribution
This table shows whether your contribution to a Roth IRA is affected by the amount of your modified adjusted gross 
income (modified AGI).
IF you have taxable 
compensation
and your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is... THEN...
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving spouse
less than $236,000
you can contribute up to $7,000 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or 
older) as explained under How 
Much Can Be Contributed, 
earlier.
at least $236,000
but less than $246,000
the amount you can contribute 
is reduced as explained under 
Contribution limit reduced, 
earlier.
$246,000 or more you can’t contribute to a Roth 
IRA.
married filing separately
(and you lived with your spouse 
at any time during the year)
zero (-0-)
you can contribute up to $7,000 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or 
older) as explained under How 
Much Can Be Contributed, 
earlier.
more than zero (-0-)
but less than $10,000
the amount you can contribute 
is reduced as explained under 
Contribution limit reduced, 
earlier.
$10,000 or more you can’t contribute to a Roth 
IRA.
single, head of household, or 
married filing separately
 (and you didn’t live with your 
spouse at any time during the 
year)
less than $150,000
you can contribute up to $7,000 
($8,000 if you are age 50 or 
older) as explained under How 
Much Can Be Contributed, 
earlier.
at least $150,000
but less than $165,000
the amount you can contribute 
is reduced as explained under 
Contribution limit reduced, 
earlier.
$165,000 or more you can’t contribute to a Roth 
IRA.
42 Chapter 2 Roth IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 43 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 43 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
When Can You Make Contributions?
Y ou can make contributions to a Roth IRA for a year at any 
time during the year or by the due date of your return for 
that year (not including extensions).
Y ou can make contributions for 2025 by the due 
date (not including extensions) for filing your 2025 
tax return. This means that most people can make 
contributions for 2025 by April 15, 2026.
What if You Contribute Too Much?
A 6% excise tax applies to any excess contribution to a 
Roth IRA.
Excess contributions.  These are the contributions to 
your Roth IRAs for a year that equal the total of:
1. Amounts contributed for the tax year to your Roth 
IRAs (other than amounts properly and timely rolled 
TIP
over from a Roth IRA or properly converted from a tra-
ditional IRA or rolled over from a qualified retirement 
plan, as described later) that are more than your con-
tribution limit for the year (explained earlier under How 
Much Can Be Contributed); plus
2. Any excess contributions for the preceding year, re-
duced by the total of:
a. Any distributions out of your Roth IRAs for the 
year, plus
b. Y our contribution limit for the year minus your con-
tributions to all your IRAs for the year.
Withdrawal of excess contributions.  For purposes 
of determining excess contributions, any contribution that 
is withdrawn on or before the due date (including exten-
sions) for filing your tax return for the year is treated as an 
amount not contributed. This treatment only applies if any 
earnings on the contributions are also withdrawn. The 
Determining Your Reduced Roth IRA Contribution Limit
Before using this worksheet, check T able 2-1 to determine whether or not your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced. If it 
is, use this worksheet to determine how much it is reduced.
1. Enter your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes (Worksheet 2-1, 
line 10) .................................................................. 1.  
2. Enter: 
• $236,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $-0- if married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse 
at any time in 2025, or
• $150,000 for all others ........................ ........................ 2.  
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 ................................................ 3.  
4. Enter:
• $10,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse or married 
filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time 
during the year, or
• $15,000 for all others ........................ ........................ 4.  
5. Divide line 3 by line 4 and enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at 
least three places). If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 ............ 5.  
6. Enter the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Y our taxable compensation..................... ..................... 6.  
7. Multiply line 5 by line 6 ................................................... 7.  
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. Round the result up to the nearest $10. If the 
result is less than $200, enter $200 ...................................... 8.  
9. Enter contributions for the year to other IRAs ............................ 9.  
10. Subtract line 9 from line 6 ................................................ 10.  
11. Enter the lesser of line 8 or line 10. This is your reduced Roth IRA 
contribution limit ...................................................... 11.  
Worksheet 2-2.
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 2 Roth IRAs 43

--- PAGE 44 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 44 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
earnings are considered earned and received in the year 
the excess contribution was made.
If you timely filed your 2025 tax return without withdraw-
ing a contribution that you made in 2025, you can still have 
the contribution returned to you within 6 months of the due 
date of your 2025 tax return, excluding extensions. If you 
do, file an amended return with “Filed pursuant to section 
301.9100-2” written at the top. Report any related earn-
ings on the amended return and include an explanation of 
the withdrawal. Make any other necessary changes on the 
amended return.
Applying excess contributions. If contributions to your 
Roth IRA for a year were more than the limit, you can ap-
ply the excess contribution in 1 year to a later year if the 
contributions for that later year are less than the maximum 
allowed for that year.
Can You Move Amounts Into a 
Roth IRA?
Y ou may be able to convert amounts from either a tradi-
tional or traditional SIMPLE IRA into a Roth IRA or Roth 
SIMPLE IRA. Y ou may be able to roll over amounts from a 
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA. Y ou may be able to 
recharacterize contributions made to one IRA as having 
been made directly to a different IRA. Y ou can roll 
amounts over from a designated Roth account or from one 
Roth IRA to another Roth IRA.
Conversions
Y ou can convert a traditional IRA to a Roth IRA. The con-
version is treated as a rollover, regardless of the conver-
sion method used. Most of the rules for rollovers, descri-
bed in chapter 1 under Rollover From One IRA Into 
Another, apply to these rollovers. However, the 1 -year 
waiting period doesn’t apply.
Conversion methods. Y ou can convert amounts from a 
traditional IRA to a Roth IRA in any of the following three 
ways.
• Rollover. Y ou can receive a distribution from a tradi-
tional IRA and roll it over (contribute it) to a Roth IRA 
within 60 days after the distribution.
• Trustee-to-trustee transfer. Y ou can direct the 
trustee of the traditional IRA to transfer an amount 
from the traditional IRA to the trustee of the Roth IRA.
• Same trustee transfer. If the trustee of the traditional 
IRA also maintains the Roth IRA, you can direct the 
trustee to transfer an amount from the traditional IRA 
to the Roth IRA.
Worksheet 2-2. Example—Illustrated
Before using this worksheet, check T able 2-1 to determine whether or not your Roth IRA contribution limit is reduced. If it 
is, use this worksheet to determine how much it is reduced.
1. Enter your modified AGI for Roth IRA purposes (Worksheet 2-1, line 10) .............. 1. 151,000
2. Enter: 
• $236,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse,
• $-0- if married filing a separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time in 
2025, or
• $150,000 for all others .......................... .......................... 2. 150,000
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 .................................................... 3. 1,000
4. Enter:
• $10,000 if filing a joint return or qualifying surviving spouse or married filing a 
separate return and you lived with your spouse at any time during the year, or
• $15,000 for all others ........................... ........................... 4. 15,000
5. Divide line 3 by line 4 and enter the result as a decimal (rounded to at least three places). 
If the result is 1.000 or more, enter 1.000 ........................................ 5. 0.067
6. Enter the lesser of:
• $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older), or
• Y our taxable compensation........................ ........................ 6. 7,000
7. Multiply line 5 by line 6 ....................................................... 7. 469
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. Round the result up to the nearest $10. If the result is less than 
$200, enter $200 ........................................................... 8. 6,540
9. Enter contributions for the year to other IRAs .................................... 9. 0
10. Subtract line 9 from line 6 .................................................... 10. 7,000
11. Enter the lesser of line 8 or line 10. This is your reduced Roth IRA 
contribution limit .......................................................... 11. 6,540
44 Chapter 2 Roth IRAs Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 45 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 45 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Same trustee.  Conversions made with the same 
trustee can be made by redesignating the traditional IRA 
as a Roth IRA, rather than opening a new account or issu-
ing a new contract.
Qualified tuition program rollover to a Roth IRA.  Be-
ginning with distributions made after December 31, 2023, 
a beneficiary of a section 529 qualified tuition program is 
permitted to roll over a distribution from the section 529 
account to a Roth IRA for the beneficiary if certain require-
ments are met.
• The rollover must be paid through a direct 
trustee-to-trustee transfer to a Roth IRA maintained for 
the benefit of the beneficiary.
• The rollover amount for a year cannot be more than 
the Roth IRA annual contributions limit, and all such 
rollovers for the individual’s lifetime cannot exceed 
$35,000.
• The rollover must be from a section 529 account that 
has been open for more than 15 years.
• The distribution cannot exceed the aggregate amount 
contributed to the program (and earnings attributed to 
the contributed amount) before the 5-year period end-
ing on the date of the distribution.
A distribution made after December 31, 2025, and be-
fore April 15, 2026, that is rolled over to a Roth IRA by 
April 15, 2026, and designated for 2025 would be reported 
as a Roth IRA contribution for 2025.
Income. Y ou must include in your gross income distribu-
tions from a traditional IRA that you would have had to in-
clude in income if you hadn’t converted them into a Roth 
IRA. These amounts are normally included in income on 
your return for the year that you converted them from a tra-
ditional IRA to a Roth IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross in-
come, you may have to increase your withholding 
or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.
More information. For more information on conversions, 
see Converting From Any T raditional IRA Into a Roth IRA 
in chapter 1.
Rollover From Employer's Plan Into a 
Roth IRA
Y ou can roll over into a Roth IRA all or part of an eligible 
rollover distribution you receive from your (or your de-
ceased spouse's):
• Employer's qualified pension, profit-sharing, or stock 
bonus plan (including a 401(k) plan);
• Annuity plan;
• T ax-sheltered annuity plan (section 403(b) plan); or
• Governmental deferred compensation plan (section 
457 plan).
CAUTION
!
Any amount rolled over is subject to the same rules for 
converting a traditional IRA into a Roth IRA. See Convert-
ing From Any T raditional IRA Into a Roth IRA in chapter 1. 
Also, the rollover contribution must meet the rollover re-
quirements that apply to the specific type of retirement 
plan.
Rollover methods.  Y ou can roll over amounts from a 
qualified retirement plan to a Roth IRA in one of the follow-
ing ways.
• Rollover. Y ou can receive a distribution from a quali-
fied retirement plan and roll it over (contribute it) to a 
Roth IRA within 60 days after the distribution. Because 
the distribution is paid directly to you, the payer must 
generally withhold 20% of it. For rules about making a 
rollover of a plan loan offset, including a qualified plan 
loan offset, see Time Limit for Making a Rollover Con-
tribution in chapter 1.
• Direct rollover option. Y our employer's qualified plan 
must give you the option to have any part of an eligible 
rollover distribution paid directly to a Roth IRA. Gener-
ally, no tax is withheld from any part of the designated 
distribution that is directly paid to the trustee of the 
Roth IRA.
Rollover by nonspouse beneficiary. If you are a desig-
nated beneficiary (other than a surviving spouse) of a de-
ceased employee, you can roll over all or part of an eligi-
ble rollover distribution from one of the types of plans 
listed earlier into a Roth IRA. Y ou must make the rollover 
by a direct trustee -to-trustee transfer into an inherited 
Roth IRA.
Y ou will determine your RMDs in years after you make 
the rollover based on whether the employee died before 
their required beginning date for taking distributions from 
the plan. For more information, see Distributions after the 
employee’s death under T ax on Excess Accumulation in 
Pub. 575.
Income. Y ou must include in your gross income distribu-
tions from a qualified retirement plan that you would have 
had to include in income if you hadn’t rolled them over into 
a Roth IRA. Y ou don’t include in gross income any part of 
a distribution from a qualified retirement plan that is a re-
turn of basis (after -tax contributions) to the plan that were 
taxable to you when paid. These amounts are normally in-
cluded in income on your return for the year of the rollover 
from the qualified employer plan to a Roth IRA.
If you must include any amount in your gross in-
come, you may have to increase your withholding 
or make estimated tax payments. See Pub. 505.
For more information on eligible rollover distributions 
from qualified retirement plans and withholding, see Roll-
over From Employer's Plan Into an IRA in chapter 1.
CAUTION
!
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 2 Roth IRAs 45

--- PAGE 46 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 46 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Military Death Gratuities and 
Servicemembers' Group Life 
Insurance (SGLI) Payments
If you received a military death gratuity or SGLI payment 
with respect to a death from injury that occurred after Oc-
tober 6, 2001, you can contribute (roll over) all or part of 
the amount received to your Roth IRA. The contribution is 
treated as a qualified rollover contribution.
The amount you can roll over to your Roth IRA can’t ex-
ceed the total amount that you received reduced by any 
part of that amount that was contributed to a Coverdell 
ESA or another Roth IRA. Any military death gratuity or 
SGLI payment contributed to a Roth IRA is disregarded for 
purposes of the 1-year waiting period between rollovers.
The rollover must be completed before the end of the 
1-year period beginning on the date you received the pay-
ment.
The amount contributed to your Roth IRA is treated as 
part of your cost basis (investment in the contract) in the 
Roth IRA that isn’t taxable when distributed.
Rollover From a Roth IRA
Y ou can withdraw, tax free, all or part of the assets from 
one Roth IRA if you contribute them within 60 days to an-
other Roth IRA. Most of the rules for rollovers, described 
in chapter 1 under Rollover From One IRA Into Another , 
apply to these rollovers. However, rollovers from retire-
ment plans other than Roth IRAs are disregarded for pur-
poses of the 1-year waiting period between rollovers.
A rollover from a Roth IRA to an employer retirement 
plan isn’t allowed.
A rollover from a designated Roth account can only be 
made to another designated Roth account or to a Roth 
IRA.
If you roll over an amount from one Roth IRA to another 
Roth IRA, the 5 -year period used to determine qualified 
distributions doesn’t change. The 5 -year period begins 
with the first tax year for which the contribution was made 
to the initial Roth IRA. See What Are Qualified Distribu-
tions? in chapter 2 of Pub. 590-B.
3.
Retirement Savings 
Contributions Credit 
(Saver's Credit)
What's New
Modified AGI limit for retirement savings contribu-
tions credit increased.  For 2025, you may be able to 
claim the retirement savings contributions credit if your 
modified AGI isn’t more than:
• $79,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly;
• $59,250 if your filing status is head of household; or
• $39,500 if your filing status is single, married filing 
separately, or qualifying surviving spouse.
Introduction
Y ou may be able to take a tax credit if you make eligible 
contributions (defined later) to a qualified retirement plan, 
an eligible deferred compensation plan, or an IRA. Y ou 
may be able to take a credit of up to $1,000 (up to $2,000 
if filing jointly). This credit could reduce the federal income 
tax you pay dollar for dollar.
Can you claim the credit? If you make eligible contribu-
tions to a qualified retirement plan, an eligible deferred 
compensation plan, or an IRA, you can claim the credit if 
all of the following apply.
1. Y ou were born before January 2, 2008.
2. Y ou aren’t a full-time student (explained later).
3. No one else, such as your parent(s), claims you as a 
dependent on their tax return.
4. Y our adjusted gross income (defined later) isn’t more 
than:
a. $79,000 if your filing status is married filing jointly;
b. $59,250 if your filing status is head of household; 
or
c. $39,500 if your filing status is single, married filing 
separately, or qualifying surviving spouse.
Full-time student. Y ou are a full-time student if, during 
some part of each of 5 calendar months (not necessarily 
consecutive) during the calendar year, you are either:
• A full-time student at a school that has a regular teach-
ing staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body 
of students in attendance; or
46 Chapter 3 Retirement Savings Contributions Credit 
(Saver's Credit)
Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 47 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 47 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• A student taking a full-time, on-farm training course 
given by either a school that has a regular teaching 
staff, course of study, and regularly enrolled body of 
students in attendance, or a state, county, or local 
government.
Y ou are a full-time student if you are enrolled for the num-
ber of hours or courses the school considers to be full 
time.
Adjusted gross income (AGI).  This is generally the 
amount on line 11a of your 2025 Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 
1040-NR. However, you must add to that amount any ex-
clusion or deduction claimed for the year for:
• Foreign earned income,
• Foreign housing costs,
• Income from American Samoa, and
• Income from Puerto Rico.
Eligible contributions. These include:
1. Contributions to a traditional or Roth IRA;
2. Salary reduction contributions (elective deferrals, in-
cluding amounts designated as after-tax Roth contri-
butions) to:
a. A 401(k) plan (including a SIMPLE 401(k)),
b. A section 403(b) annuity,
c. An eligible deferred compensation plan of a state 
or local government (a governmental 457 plan),
d. A SIMPLE IRA plan, or
e. A salary reduction SEP arrangement; and
3. Contributions to a section 501(c)(18) plan.
They also include voluntary after -tax employee contribu-
tions to a tax -qualified retirement plan or section 403(b) 
annuity. For purposes of the credit, an employee contribu-
tion will be voluntary as long as it isn’t required as a condi-
tion of employment.
Reducing eligible contributions.  Reduce your eligible 
contributions (but not below zero) by the total distributions 
you received during the testing period (defined later) from 
any IRA, plan, or annuity included above under Eligible 
contributions. Also reduce your eligible contributions by 
any distribution from a Roth IRA that isn’t rolled over, even 
if the distribution isn’t taxable.
Don’t reduce your eligible contributions by any of the 
following.
1. The portion of any distribution which isn’t includible in 
income because it is a trustee-to-trustee transfer or a 
rollover distribution.
2. Distributions that are taxable as the result of an 
in-plan rollover to your designated Roth account.
3. Any distribution that is a return of a contribution to an 
IRA (including a Roth IRA) made during the year for 
which you claim the credit if:
a. The distribution is made before the due date (in-
cluding extensions) of your tax return for that year,
b. Y ou don’t take a deduction for the contribution, 
and
c. The distribution includes any income attributable 
to the contribution.
4. Loans from a qualified employer plan treated as a dis-
tribution.
5. Distributions of excess contributions or deferrals (and 
income attributable to excess contributions and defer-
rals).
6. Distributions of dividends paid on stock held by an 
employee stock ownership plan under section 404(k).
7. Distributions from an eligible retirement plan that are 
converted or rolled over to a Roth IRA.
8. Distributions from a military retirement plan.
9. Distributions from an inherited IRA by a nonspousal 
beneficiary.
Distributions received by spouse.  Any distributions 
your spouse receives are treated as received by you if you 
file a joint return with your spouse both for the year of the 
distribution and for the year for which you claim the credit.
Testing period. The testing period consists of the year 
for which you claim the credit, the period after the end of 
that year and before the due date (including extensions) 
for filing your return for that year, and the 2 tax years be-
fore that year.
Example. Y ou and your spouse filed joint returns in 
2023 and 2024, and plan to do so in 2025 and 2026. Y ou 
received a taxable distribution from a qualified plan in 
2023 and a taxable distribution from an eligible deferred 
compensation plan in 2024. Y our spouse received taxable 
distributions from a Roth IRA in 2025 and tax-free distribu-
tions from a Roth IRA in 2026 before April 15. Y ou made 
eligible contributions to an IRA in 2025 and you otherwise 
qualify for this credit. Y ou must reduce the amount of your 
qualifying contributions in 2025 by the total of the distribu-
tions you received in 2023, 2024, 2025, and 2026.
Maximum eligible contributions.  After your contribu-
tions are reduced, the maximum annual contribution on 
which you can base the credit is $2,000 per person.
Effect on other credits.  The amount of this credit won’t 
change the amount of your refundable tax credits. A re-
fundable tax credit, such as the earned income credit or 
the refundable amount of your child tax credit, is an 
amount that you would receive as a refund even if you 
didn’t otherwise owe any taxes.
Maximum credit.  This is a nonrefundable credit. The 
amount of the credit in any year can’t be more than the 
amount of tax that you would otherwise pay (not counting 
any refundable credits) in any year. If your tax liability is re-
duced to zero because of other nonrefundable credits, 
Publication 590-A (2025) Chapter 3 Retirement Savings Contributions Credit 
(Saver's Credit)
47

--- PAGE 48 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 48 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
such as the credit for child and dependent care expenses, 
then you won’t be entitled to this credit.
How to figure and report the credit.  The amount of the 
credit you can get is based on the contributions you make 
and your credit rate. Y our credit rate can be as low as 10% 
or as high as 50%. Y our credit rate depends on your in-
come and your filing status. See Form 8880 to determine 
your credit rate.
The maximum contribution taken into account is $2,000 
per person. On a joint return, up to $2,000 is taken into ac-
count for each spouse.
Figure the credit on Form 8880. Report the credit on 
Schedule 3 (Form 1040), line 4, and attach Form 8880 to 
your return.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications, 
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that 
can help you right away.
Tax reform.  T ax reform legislation impacting federal 
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P .L. 119-21, 
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act, on July 
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and 
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return.  After receiving all 
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W -2, W -2G, 
1099-R, 1099 -MISC, 1099 -NEC, etc.); unemployment 
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or 
other government payment statements (Form 1099 -G); 
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from 
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. Y ou can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you 
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to 
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation.  Y our options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your 
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax 
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go 
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online 
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or 
payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income T ax Assistance (VITA) 
program offers free tax help to people with 
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, 
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need 
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call 
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.
• TCE. The T ax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-
gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly 
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. 
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app 
for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilT ax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military 
OneSource. For more information, go to 
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilT ax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can 
be completed online and then e -filed regardless of in-
come.
Using online tools to help prepare your return.  Go to 
IRS.gov/T ools for the following.
• The Earned Income T ax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the 
earned income credit (EITC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you 
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no 
cost.
• The T ax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App) 
makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income 
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
• The Sales T ax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/
SalesT ax) figures the amount you can claim if you 
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
Getting answers to your tax questions.  On 
IRS.gov, you can get up -to-date information on 
current events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
swers to some of the most common tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive T ax Assistant, a tool that 
will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
vide answers on a number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
tions. Y ou will find details on the most recent tax 
changes and interactive links to help you find answers 
to your questions.
• Y ou may also be able to access tax information in your 
e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?  There are 
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled 
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, 
and many others who don’t have professional credentials. 
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return, 
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-
racy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
48 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 49 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 49 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• Required to include their preparer tax identification 
number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs the return, 
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the 
information required for the preparer to accurately 
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-
ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns 
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax 
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-
parer, go to Tips for Choosing a T ax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services On-
line. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
line service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure 
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents, 
and individuals who process Form W -2, Wage and T ax 
Statement; and Form W -2c, Corrected Wage and T ax 
Statement.
Business tax account.  If you are a sole proprietor, a 
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a sin-
gle-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view 
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more 
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the 
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest 
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, prod-
ucts, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our 
highest priority. We use these tools to share public infor-
mation with you. Don’t post your social security number 
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media 
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social 
networking site.
The following IRS Y ouT ube channels provide short, in-
formative videos on various tax -related topics in English 
and ASL.
• Y outube.com/irsvideos.
• Y outube.com/irsvideosASL.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS of-
fers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language inter-
pretation. The OPI Service is available at T axpayer Assis-
tance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every 
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Span-
ish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, 
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with 
disabilities. T axpayers who need information about ac-
cessibility services can call 833 -690-0598. The Accessi-
bility Helpline can answer questions related to current and 
future accessibility products and services available in al-
ternative media formats (for example, braille -ready, large 
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not 
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, re-
funds, or account -related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
CAUTION
!
Alternative media preference.  Form 9000, Alternative 
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to 
receive certain types of written correspondence in the fol-
lowing formats.
• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain T ext File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the 
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications.  Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instruc-
tions, and publications you may need. Or you can go to 
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms.  Y ou’ll need an IRS Online Ac-
count (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require 
signatures. Y ou’ll have the option to submit your form(s) 
online or download a copy for mailing. Y ou’ll need scans of 
your documents to support your submission. Go to 
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook 
format. Download and view most tax publications and in-
structions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on 
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for 
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated 
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate 
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers 
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access infor-
mation about your federal tax account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax 
year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment 
plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history 
and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key data from your 
most recent tax return, and transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-
fessionals.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, 
you can access a variety of information to help you during 
the filing season. Y ou can get a transcript, review your 
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross 
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Publication 590-A (2025) 49

--- PAGE 50 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 50 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Tax Pro Account.  This tool lets your tax professional 
submit an authorization request to access your individual 
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
T axProAccount.
Using direct deposit.  The safest and easiest way to re-
ceive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit, 
which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-
rectly into your financial account. Direct deposit also 
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, 
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in 
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If 
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank 
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax -related identity 
theft issues. 
• T ax-related identity theft happens when someone 
steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. 
Y our taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a 
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by 
email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-
phone calls, or social media channels to request or 
verify personal or financial information. This includes 
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), 
passwords, or similar information for credit cards, 
banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft 
Central webpage, for information on identity theft and 
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-
nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or 
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related 
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should 
take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are 
six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-
vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-
come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-
vents someone else from filing a tax return with your 
SSN. T o learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund. 
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-
vice to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid -February 
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional 
child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire 
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment.  The IRS recommends paying 
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electroni-
cally are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax 
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets 
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information 
CAUTION
!
on how to make a payment using any of the following op-
tions.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s 
free and secure, and no sign-in is required. Y ou can 
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an 
approved payment processor to pay online or by 
phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment 
when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
tion software or through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal T ax Payment System: This is the 
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-
dress listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: Y ou may be able to pay your taxes with cash at 
a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: Y ou may be able to do same-day 
wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.
Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to 
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by 
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are 
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
What if I can’t pay now?  Go to IRS.gov/Payments for 
more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/
OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly install-
ments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once 
you complete the online process, you will receive im-
mediate notification of whether your agreement has 
been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if 
you can settle your tax debt for less than the full 
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in 
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return.  Go to IRS.gov/1040X for in-
formation and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return.  Go to 
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040 -X amen-
ded returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed 
your amended return for it to show up in our sys-
tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve re-
ceived. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional informa-
tion about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool.  Y ou may be able to use 
the Document Upload T ool to respond digitally to eligible 
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required 
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, 
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
CAUTION
!
50 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 51 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 51 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Schedule LEP . Y ou can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040), 
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a 
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written com-
munications from the IRS in an alternative language. Y ou 
may not immediately receive written communications in 
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP 
taxpayers is part of a multi -year timeline that began pro-
viding translations in 2023. Y ou will continue to receive 
communications, including notices and letters, in English 
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC.  Keep in mind, many ques-
tions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. 
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about 
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a 
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs 
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in ad-
vance that you can get the service you need without long 
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TAC to find the 
nearest TAC and to check hours, available services, and 
appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, under the 
Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us option and 
click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the T axpayer Advocate 
Service, an independent organization established by Con-
gress.
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) 
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The T axpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent 
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, 
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to 
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer 
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated 
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under 
the T axpayer Bill of Rights. We are Y our Voice at the IRS.
How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been 
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to re-
solve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then 
come to TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), in-
cluding individuals, businesses, and exempt organiza-
tions. Y ou may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS 
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried 
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or 
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure 
just isn’t working as it should.
• T o get help any time with general tax topics, visit 
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help 
you with common tax issues and situations, such as 
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if 
you get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems 
that affect many taxpayers. Y ou can report systemic is-
sues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include 
any personal identifiable information.)
How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia, 
and Puerto Rico. T o find your local advocate’s number:
• Go to www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The T axpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that 
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to 
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/T axpayer-Rights for 
more information about the rights, what they mean to you, 
and how they apply to specific situations you may encoun-
ter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and 
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and 
equitable way.
Publication 590-A (2025) 51

--- PAGE 52 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 52 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Appendices
T o help you complete your tax return, 
use the following appendices that in-
clude worksheets and tables.
1. Appendix A—Summary Record 
of T raditional IRA(s) for 2025.
2. Appendix B—Worksheets you 
use if you receive social security 
benefits and are subject to the IRA 
deduction phaseout rules. A fil-
led-in example is included.
a. Worksheet 1, Computation of 
Modified AGI.
b. Worksheet 2, Computation of 
T raditional IRA Deduction for 
2025.
c. Worksheet 3, Computation of 
T axable Social Security Bene-
fits.
d. Comprehensive Example and 
completed worksheets.
3. Appendix C—Line 1 Worksheet.
52 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 53 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 53 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Summary Record of Traditional IRA(s) for 
2025
Appendix A.
Keep for Y our Records
 
Name ______________________________________
I was 
  covered 
  not covered by my employer's retirement plan during the year.
I became age 591/2 on ______________________________________(month) (day) (year)
Contributions
Name of traditional IRA Date
Amount contributed for 
2025 
Check if 
rollover 
contribution 
Fair market value of IRA as 
of December 31, 2025, 
from Form 5498
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
T otal
T otal contributions deducted on tax return ............................................. $
T otal contributions treated as nondeductible on Form 8606............................... $
Distributions
Name of 
traditional IRA Date
Amount of 
distribution
Reason (for 
example, 
retirement, 
rollover, 
conversion, 
withdrawal of 
excess 
contributions)
Income 
earned 
on IRA
T axable 
amount 
reported on 
income tax 
return
Nontaxable amount from 
Form 8606, line 13
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
T otal
Basis of all traditional IRAs for 2025 and earlier years (from Form 8606, line 14) .............  $
Note. Y ou should keep copies of your income tax return, and Forms W-2, 8606, and 5498.
Publication 590-A (2025) 53

--- PAGE 54 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 54 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Worksheets for Social Security Recipients 
Who Contribute to a Traditional IRA
Appendix B.
Keep for Y our Records
If you receive social security benefits, have taxable compensation, contribute to your traditional IRA, and you or your spouse 
is covered by an employer retirement plan, complete the following worksheets. (See Are Y ou Covered by an Employer Plan? 
in chapter 1.)
 
Use Worksheet 1 to figure your modified adjusted gross income. This amount is needed in the computation of your IRA 
deduction, if any, which is figured using Worksheet 2.
 
The IRA deduction figured using Worksheet 2 is entered on your tax return.
Worksheet 1
Computation of Modified AGI
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
 
  A. Married filing jointly
 
  B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately and 
lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
 
  C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any social security 
benefits from Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, any deduction for contributions to a traditional 
IRA, any student loan interest deduction, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be 
reported on Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with 
this calculation.) ...................................................................  1.  
2. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 .........................  2.  
3. Enter one-half of line 2 .............................................................  3.  
4. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, U.S. 
territories income exclusion, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you claimed as a bona fide 
resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits ..............  4.  
5. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a .....  5.  
6. Add lines 1, 3, 4, and 5 .............................................................  6.  
7. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above .......................... ..........................  7.  
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line ...........................  8.  
9. If line 8 is zero, skip to line 17, enter -0-, and continue with line 18.
If line 8 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above .......................... ..........................  9.  
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- .....................................
 
10.  
11. Enter the smaller of line 8 or line 9 ...................................................
 
11.  
12. Enter one-half of line 11 ............................................................
 
12.  
13. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 12 ..................................................
 
13.  
14. Multiply line 10 by 0.85. If line 10 is zero, enter -0- ......................................
 
14.  
15. Add lines 13 and 14 ................................................................
 
15.  
16. Multiply line 2 by 0.85 ..............................................................
 
16.  
17. Taxable benefits to be included in modified AGI for traditional IRA deduction purposes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 .................................................
 
17.  
18. Enter the amount of any employer-provided adoption benefits exclusion and any foreign
earned income exclusion and foreign housing exclusion or deduction that you claimed ......
 
18.  
19. Modified AGI for determining your reduced traditional IRA deduction—add lines 1, 17, and 
18. Enter here and on line 2 of Worksheet 2 next .......................................
 
19.  
54 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 55 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 55 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Appendix B (continued) Keep for Y our Records
Worksheet 2
Computation of Traditional IRA Deduction for 2025
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits) 
IF your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is over...
THEN enter on line 1 
below...
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving 
spouse $126,000* $146,000
married filing jointly (you 
are not covered by an 
employer plan but your 
spouse is) $236,000* $246,000
single, or head of 
household $79,000* $89,000
married filing 
separately** $0* $10,000
* If your modified AGI isn’t over this amount, you can take an IRA deduction for your contributions of up to the lesser 
of $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older) or your taxable compensation. Skip this worksheet, proceed to 
Worksheet 3, and enter your IRA deduction on line 2 of Worksheet 3.
** If you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year, consider your filing status as single.
Note. If you were married and you or your spouse worked and you both contributed to IRAs, figure the deduction for 
each of you separately.
1. Enter the applicable amount from above .......................................... 1.  
2. Enter your modified AGI from Worksheet 1, line 19 ................................ 2.  
Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here; your traditional 
IRA contributions aren’t deductible. Proceed to Worksheet 3.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 ....................................................... 3.  
4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of 
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to 
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you 
are covered by an employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% 
 (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or older).
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if 
you are age 50 or older).
.................. 4.  
5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 
(deductible part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 
(self-employed SEP , SIMPLE, and qualified plans). If you are the lower-income spouse, 
include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA 
contributions for this year ....................................................... 5.  
6. Enter contributions you made, or plan to make, to your traditional IRA for 2025, but don’t 
enter more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). .......................... 6.  
7. Deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount here (or a smaller 
amount if you choose). Enter this amount on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. (If the 
amount on line 6 is more than the amount on line 7, complete line 8.) ................. 7.  
8. Nondeductible contributions. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller. 
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs ............ 8.  
Publication 590-A (2025) 55

--- PAGE 56 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 56 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Appendix B (continued) Keep for Y our Records
Worksheet 3
Computation of Taxable Social Security Benefits
(For use by taxpayers who receive social security benefits and take a traditional IRA 
deduction)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
 A. Married filing jointly
 B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately
 and lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
 C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the
 year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any IRA 
deduction, any student loan interest deduction, or any social security benefits from Form 
SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported 
on Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with 
this calculation.) ............................................................... 1.  
2. Deduction(s) from line 7 of Worksheet(s) 2 ........................................ 2.  
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 ....................................................... 3.  
4. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 ..................... 4.  
5. Enter one-half of line 4 .......................................................... 5.  
6. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, 
exclusion of income from U.S. territories, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you 
claimed as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided 
adoption benefits .............................................................. 6.  
7. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on line 2a of Form 1040 or 
1040-SR ...................................................................... 7.  
8. Add lines 3, 5, 6, and 7 ......................................................... 8.  
9. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above ........................ ........................ 9.  
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line ........................ 10.  
11. If line 10 is zero, stop here. None of your social security benefits are taxable.
If line 10 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above ........................ ........................ 11.  
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or less, enter -0- ............................... 12.  
13. Enter the smaller of line 10 or line 11 ............................................. 13.  
14. Enter one-half of line 13 ......................................................... 14.  
15. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 14 .............................................. 15.  
16. Multiply line 12 by 0.85. If line 12 is zero, enter -0- .................................. 16.  
17. Add lines 15 and 16 ............................................................ 17.  
18. Multiply line 4 by 0.85 ........................................................... 18.  
19. Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 17 or line 18 .............. 19.  
56 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 57 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 57 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Appendix B (continued) Keep for Y our Records
Comprehensive Example
Determining Your Traditional IRA Deduction and
the Taxable Portion of Your Social Security Benefits
Y ou are married and file a joint return. Y ou are 65 years old and had 2025 wages of $115,000. Y our spouse didn’t work in 
2025. Y ou received social security benefits of $12,000 and made a $8,000 contribution to your traditional IRA for the year. 
Y ou had no foreign income, no tax-exempt interest, and no adjustments to income on lines 11 through 26 on your Schedule 1 
(Form 1040). Y ou participated in a section 401(k) retirement plan at work.
Y ou complete Worksheets 1 and 2. Worksheet 2 shows that your 2025 IRA deduction is $7,200. Y ou must either withdraw 
the contributions that are more than the deduction amount (the $880 shown on line 8 of Worksheet 2) or treat the excess 
amounts as nondeductible contributions (in which case you must complete Form 8606 and attach it to your Form 1040-SR).
The completed worksheets that follow show how you figured your modified AGI to determine the IRA deduction and the 
taxable social security benefits to report on your Form 1040-SR.
Worksheet 1
Computation of Modified AGI
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
 A. Married filing jointly
 
  B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately and 
lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
 
  C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any social security 
benefits from Form SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, any deduction for contributions to a traditional 
IRA, any student loan interest deduction, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be 
reported on Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with 
this calculation.) ................................................................... 1. 118,000
2. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 ......................... 2. 12,000
3. Enter one-half of line 2 ............................................................. 3. 6,000
4. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, U.S. 
territories income exclusion, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you claimed as a bona fide 
resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption benefits .............. 4. 0
5. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 2a ..... 5. 0
6. Add lines 1, 3, 4, and 5 ............................................................. 6. 124,000
7. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above .......................... .......................... 7.  32,000
8. Subtract line 7 from line 6. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line ........................... 8. 92,000
9. If line 8 is zero, skip to line 17, enter -0-, and continue with line 18.
If line 8 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above .......................... .......................... 9.  12,000
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- ..................................... 10. 80,000
11. Enter the smaller of line 8 or line 9 ................................................... 11. 12,000
12. Enter one-half of line 11 ............................................................ 12. 6,000
13. Enter the smaller of line 3 or line 12 .................................................. 13. 6,000
14. Multiply line 10 by 0.85. If line 10 is zero, enter -0- ...................................... 14. 68,000
15. Add lines 13 and 14 ................................................................ 15. 74,000
16. Multiply line 2 by 0.85 .............................................................. 16.  10,200
17. Taxable benefits to be included in modified AGI for traditional IRA deduction purposes.
Enter the smaller of line 15 or line 16 ................................................. 17. 10,200
18. Enter the amount of any employer-provided adoption benefits exclusion and any foreign
earned income exclusion and foreign housing exclusion or deduction that you claimed ...... 18.  0
19. Modified AGI for determining your reduced traditional IRA deduction—add lines 1, 17, and 
18. Enter here and on line 2 of Worksheet 2 next ....................................... 19. 128,200
Publication 590-A (2025) 57

--- PAGE 58 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 58 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Appendix B (continued) Keep for Y our Records
Worksheet 2
Computation of Traditional IRA Deduction for 2025
(For use only by taxpayers who receive social security benefits) 
IF your filing status is... AND your modified AGI is over... 
THEN enter on line 1 
below...
married filing jointly or 
qualifying surviving 
spouse $126,000* $146,000
married filing jointly (you 
aren’t covered by an 
employer plan but your 
spouse is) $236,000* $246,000
single, or head of 
household $79,000* $89,000
married filing 
separately** $0* $10,000
* If your modified AGI isn’t over this amount, you can take an IRA deduction for your contributions of up to the lesser 
of $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older) or your taxable compensation. Skip this worksheet, proceed to 
Worksheet 3, and enter your IRA deduction on line 2 of Worksheet 3.
** If you didn’t live with your spouse at any time during the year, consider your filing status as single.
Note. If you were married and you or your spouse worked and you both contributed to IRAs, figure the deduction for 
each of you separately.
1. Enter the applicable amount from above .......................................... 1. 146,000
2. Enter your modified AGI from Appendix B, Worksheet 1, line 19 ..................... 2. 128,200
Note. If line 2 is equal to or more than the amount on line 1, stop here; your traditional 
IRA contributions aren’t deductible. Proceed to Worksheet 3.
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 ....................................................... 3. 17,800
4. Multiply line 3 by the percentage below that applies to you. If the result isn’t a multiple of 
$10, round it to the next highest multiple of $10. (For example, $611.40 is rounded to 
$620.) However, if the result is less than $200, enter $200.
• Married filing jointly or qualifying surviving spouse and you 
are covered by an employer plan, multiply line 3 by 35% 
 (0.35) (by 40% (0.40) if you are age 50 or older).
• All others, multiply line 3 by 70% (0.70) (by 80% (0.80) if 
you are age 50 or older).
.................. 4. 7,120
5. Enter your compensation minus any deductions on Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 15 
(deductible part of self-employment tax), and Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 16 
(self-employed SEP , SIMPLE, and qualified plans). If you are the lower-income spouse, 
include your spouse's compensation reduced by their traditional IRA and Roth IRA 
contributions for this year ....................................................... 5. 118,000
6. Enter contributions you made, or plan to make, to your traditional IRA for 2025, but don’t 
enter more than $7,000 ($8,000 if you are age 50 or older). .......................... 6. 8,000
7. Deduction. Compare lines 4, 5, and 6. Enter the smallest amount here (or a smaller 
amount if you choose). Enter this amount on your Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20. (If the 
amount on line 6 is more than the amount on line 7, complete line 8.) ................. 7. 7,120
8. Nondeductible contributions. Subtract line 7 from line 5 or line 6, whichever is smaller. 
Enter the result here and on line 1 of your Form 8606, Nondeductible IRAs ............ 8. 880
58 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 59 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 59 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Appendix B (continued) Keep for Y our Records
Worksheet 3
Computation of Taxable Social Security Benefits
(For use by taxpayers who receive social security benefits and take a traditional IRA deduction)
Filing Status—Check only one box:
A. Married filing jointly
 B. Single, Head of household, Qualifying surviving spouse, or Married filing separately
 and lived apart from your spouse during the entire year
 C. Married filing separately and lived with your spouse at any time during the
 year
1. Adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR.
(For purposes of this worksheet, figure your AGI without taking into account any IRA 
deduction, any student loan interest deduction, any social security benefits from Form 
SSA-1099 or RRB-1099, or any exclusion of interest from savings bonds to be reported on 
Form 8815. See the Line 1 Worksheet in Appendix C for assistance with this 
calculation.) ................................................................... 1. 128,200
2. Deduction(s) from line 7 of Worksheet(s) 2 in Appendix B ............................ 2. 7,120
3. Subtract line 2 from line 1 ....................................................... 3. 121,080
4. Enter the amount in box 5 of all Forms SSA-1099 and RRB-1099 ..................... 4. 12,000
5. Enter one-half of line 4 .......................................................... 5. 6,000
6. Enter the amount of any foreign earned income exclusion, foreign housing exclusion, 
exclusion of income from U.S. territories, exclusion of income from Puerto Rico you 
claimed as a bona fide resident of Puerto Rico, or exclusion of employer-provided adoption 
benefits ...................................................................... 6. 0
7. Enter the amount of any tax-exempt interest reported on Form 1040 or 1040-SR, 
line 2a ....................................................................... 7. 0
8. Add lines 3, 5, 6, and 7 ......................................................... 8. 127,080
9. Enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $32,000 if you checked box A above.
• $25,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above ........................ ........................ 9. 32,000
10. Subtract line 9 from line 8. If zero or less, enter -0- on this line ........................ 10. 95,080
11. If line 10 is zero, stop here. None of your social security benefits are taxable.
If line 10 is more than zero, enter the amount listed below for your filing status.
• $12,000 if you checked box A above.
• $9,000 if you checked box B above.
• $0 if you checked box C above ........................ ........................ 11. 12,000
12. Subtract line 11 from line 10. If zero or less, enter -0- ................................ 12. 83,080
13. Enter the smaller of line 10 or line 11 ............................................. 13. 12,000
14. Enter one-half of line 13 ......................................................... 14. 6,000
15. Enter the smaller of line 5 or line 14 .............................................. 15. 6,000
16. Multiply line 12 by 0.85. If line 12 is zero, enter -0- ................................... 16. 70,618
17. Add lines 15 and 16 ............................................................ 17. 76,618
18. Multiply line 4 by 0.85 ........................................................... 18. 10,200
19. Taxable social security benefits. Enter the smaller of line 17 or line 18 .............. 19. 10,200
Appendix C. Line 1 Worksheet
Line 1 Supplemental Worksheet
1. Enter your adjusted gross income (AGI) from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 11a .................. 1.  
2. Enter any social security benefits included in AGI from Form 1040 or 1040-SR, line 6b ............ 2.  
3. Enter your IRA deduction amount from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 20 ....................... 3.  
4. Enter your student loan interest deduction from Schedule 1 (Form 1040), line 21 ................ 4.  
5 Enter the amount of savings bond interest reported on Form 8815, line14 ...................... 5.  
6. Add the amounts on lines 2 through 6 ............................................. 6.  
7. Subtract the amount on line 6 from line 1 .............................................. 7.  
8. Enter this amount on line 1 of Worksheets 1 and 3 ................................... 8.  
Publication 590-A (2025) 59

--- PAGE 60 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 60 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
T o help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.
Index 
10% additional tax 32
20% withholding 26
6% excise tax on excess 
contributions to Roth IRAs 43
60-day period for rollovers 22
A
Additional taxes 33, 38
(See also Penalties)
Adjusted gross income (AGI) 13, 
39
(See also Modified adjusted gross 
income (AGI))
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 47
Age 50:
Contributions 9
Age limit:
T raditional IRA10
Alimony 7
Annuity contracts 10
Borrowing on 33
Assistance (See T ax help)
B
Basis:
T raditional IRAs17
Bond purchase plans:
Rollovers from 28
Bonds, retirement (See Individual 
retirement bonds)
Broker's commissions 9, 11
C
Collectibles 34
Community property 9
Compensation:
Alimony 7
Defined 6
Income included (T able 1-1)7
Nontaxable combat pay 7
Self-employment 7
Wages, salaries, etc. 6
Conduit IRAs 27
Contribution limits:
More than one IRA 10
Contributions
Designating the year 11
Distributions in same year as 15
Excess (See Excess contributions)
Less than maximum 10
Nondeductible (See Nondeductible 
contributions)
Not required 11
Qualified reservist repayments 9
Recharacterizing 
(See Recharacterization)
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 47
Roth IRAs 39-44
T raditional IRAs9, 10
When to contribute 10
Withdrawing before due date of 
return 31
Conversions:
T o Roth IRAs44
Credits
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 46-48
D
Deductions
Figuring reduced IRA deduction 16
Phaseout 13
T raditional IRAs11-17
Deemed IRAs 38
Defined benefit plans 12
Defined contribution plans 12
Difficulty of care payments:
Compensation 16
Nondeductible IRA contributions 16
Distributions:
Contributions in same year as 15
Income from 15
Inherited IRAs (See Inherited IRAs)
Divorce:
Rollovers by former spouse 28
T ransfers incident to28
E
Early distributions 33
(See also Additional taxes)
T ax32
Employer and employee 
association trust accounts 8
Employer plans:
Covered by 11
Y ear(s) covered12
Employer retirement plans 12
Defined benefit plans 12
Defined contribution plans 12
Effect of modified AGI on deduction 
(T able 1-2)14
Limit if covered by 13
Prohibited transactions 33
Endowment contracts (See Annuity 
contracts)
Excess contributions 35-38
Closed tax year 38
Deducted in earlier year 36
Deductible this year (Worksheet 
1-5) 36
Deductible this year if any were 
deducted in closed tax year 
(Worksheet 1-6) 38
Deducting in a later year 36
Due to incorrect rollover 
information 36
Recharacterizing 30
Roth IRAs 43
T ax32
Withdrawn after due date of 
return 35
Withdrawn by due date of return 35
Exempt transactions 33
F
Federal judges 12
Fiduciaries:
Prohibited transactions 33
Filing before IRA contribution is 
made 11
Filing status 10
Deduction phaseout and 13
Firefighters, volunteer 13
Form 1040:
Modified AGI calculation from 14
Form 1040-NR:
Modified AGI calculation from 15
Form 1040-SR:
Modified AGI calculation from 14
Form 1099-R:
Distribution code 1 used on 38
Withdrawal of excess 
contribution 35
Form 5329 38
Form 8606 16
Failure to file, penalty 17
Form 8880 48
Form W-2:
Employer retirement plans 12
Frozen deposits 24
Full-time student:
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 46
H
How to:
Set up an IRA 7
T reat withdrawn contributions35
I
Individual retirement accounts 7
Individual retirement annuities 8
60 Publication 590-A (2025)

--- PAGE 61 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 61 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Individual retirement arrangements 
(IRAs):
How to set up 7
When to set up 7
Individual retirement bonds 8
Inherited IRAs 21
Rollovers 25
Interest on IRA 3
Investment in collectibles:
Collectibles defined 34
Exception 34
K
Kay Bailey Hutchison Spousal 
IRAs:
Contribution limits 10
Deductions 11
Roth IRA contribution limits 39
Keogh plans:
Rollovers from 28
L
Last-in first-out rule 32
Life insurance 28
Line 1 Worksheet 59
M
Military death gratuities 46
Missing children, photographs of 3
Modified adjusted gross income 
(AGI):
Employer retirement plan coverage 
and deduction (T able 1-2)14
Figuring (Worksheet 1-1) 16
No employer retirement plan 
coverage and deduction 
(T able 1-3)14
Roth IRAs 39
Effect on contribution amount 
(T able 2-1)42
More than one IRA 10
Recharacterization 31
N
Nondeductible contributions 16
Failure to report 17
Overstatement penalty 17
Notice:
Qualified employer plan to provide 
prior to rollover distribution 26
Rollovers 22
P
Partial rollovers 25, 28
Penalties 33-38
Excess contributions 35-38
Roth IRAs 43
Exempt transactions 33, 34
Failure to file Form 8606 17
Overstatement of nondeductible 
contributions 17
Prohibited transactions 33, 34
Phaseout of deduction 13
Pledging account as security 33
Prohibited transactions 33, 34
Additional taxes 33
Publications (See T ax help)
Q
Qualified domestic relations orders 
(QDROs) 28
R
Recharacterization 29-31
Determining amount of net income 
due to contribution and total 
amount to be recharacterized 
(Worksheet 1-3) 30
Timing of 30
Recordkeeping requirements:
Summary record of traditional IRAs 
for 2025 (Appendix A) 53
T raditional IRAs17
Reporting:
Additional taxes 38
Deductible contributions 16
Recharacterization 31
Rollovers:
From employer plans 28
From IRAs 25
Reservists 13
Qualified reservist repayments 9
Retirement bonds (See Individual 
retirement bonds)
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 46-48
Rollovers 22-28
Amount 24
Choosing an option (T able 1-5)27
Completed after 60-day period 22
Conduit IRAs 27
Direct rollover option 27
Extension of period 24
From bond purchase plan 28
From employer's plan into a Roth 
IRA 45
From employer's plan into an 
IRA 25
From Keogh plans 28
From one IRA into another 24
From Roth IRAs 46
From traditional IRA 22
Inherited IRAs 25
Nonspouse beneficiary 26
Notice 22
Partial 25, 28
T ax treatment of rollover from 
traditional IRA to eligible 
retirement plan other than an 
IRA 22
Time limit 22
T o Roth IRAs44
T o traditional IRA22
Waiting period between 25, 27
Withholding (See Withholding)
Roth IRAs 38
Age limit 39
Contribution limit reduced 40
Determining reduced limit 
(Worksheet 2-2) 43
Contributions 39-44
Timing of 43
T o traditional IRAs and to Roth 
IRAs 40
Conversion 29, 44
Defined 39
Excess contributions 43
Modified AGI:
Effect on contribution amount 
(T able 2-1)42
Figuring (Worksheet 2-1) 41
Rollovers from 46
Setting up 39
Spouse 39
T raditional IRAs converted into29
S
Section 501(c)(18) plan 9, 10
Self-certification 24
Self-employed persons:
Deductible contributions 16
Income of 6
Separated taxpayers:
Filing status of 13
Servicemembers group life 
insurance 46
Services received at reduced or no 
cost 34
SIMPLE IRAs 8
T raditional IRA, mistakenly moved 
to 29
Simplified employee pensions 
(SEPs) 8
Social Security recipients 13
Contributions to traditional IRAs, 
worksheet (Appendix B) 54, 57
Spousal IRAs (See Kay Bailey 
Hutchison Spousal IRAs or Inherited 
IRAs)
Students:
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 46
Surviving spouse:
Rollovers by 28
T
Tables:
Compensation, types of 
(T able 1-1)7
Modified AGI:
Employer retirement plan 
coverage and deduction 
(T able 1-2)14
No employer retirement plan 
coverage and deduction 
(T able 1-3)14
Roth IRAs, effect on contribution 
(T able 2-1)42
Publication 590-A (2025) 61

--- PAGE 62 of p590a.pdf ---
Page 62 of 62  Fileid: … tion-590-a/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 10:50 - 15-Jan-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Rollover vs. direct payment to 
taxpayer (T able 1-5)27
Using this publication (T able I-1)4
Tax advantages of IRAs 3
Tax credits
Retirement savings contributions 
credit 46-48
Tax help 48
Tax year 12
Tax-sheltered annuities:
Rollovers from 28
Traditional IRAs 6-38
Contribution limits 9, 10
Contributions 9, 10
Due date 11
T o Roth IRAs and to traditional 
IRAs 40
Converting into Roth IRA 29
Cost basis 17
Deductions 11-17
Defined 6
Disclosures 8
Excess contributions 35-38
Inherited IRAs 21
Loss of IRA status 33
Mistakenly moved to SIMPLE 
IRA 29
Recordkeeping 17
Reduced IRA deduction for 
2025 17
Rollovers (See Rollovers)
Setting up 6-8
Social Security recipients 13, 54, 
57
Summary record for 2025 
(Appendix A) 53
T ransfers21
T ypes of7
Withdrawing or using assets 31, 32
Transfers 21
Divorce 28
T o Roth IRAs21, 44
T rustee to trustee22, 44
Trustee-to-trustee transfers 22
T o Roth IRAs44
Trustees' fees 9, 11
U
Unrelated Business Income 34
V
Volunteer firefighters 13
W
Withdrawing or using assets
Contribution withdrawal, before due 
date of return 31
Determining total amount to be 
withdrawn (Worksheet 1-4) 32
T raditional IRAs31, 32
Withholding:
Direct rollover option 27
Eligible rollover distribution paid to 
taxpayer 26
Worksheets:
Excess contributions deductible this 
year (Worksheet 1-5) 36
If any were deducted in closed 
tax year (Worksheet 1-6) 38
Figuring amount of net income due 
to IRA contribution and total 
amount to be recharacterized 
(Worksheet 1-3) 30
Figuring amount of net income due 
to IRA contribution and total 
amount to be withdrawn 
(Worksheet 1-4) 32
Figuring modified AGI (Worksheet 
1-1) 16
Roth IRAs:
Figuring modified AGI 
(Worksheet 2-1) 41
Figuring reduced contribution 
limit (Worksheet 2-2) 43
Social Security recipients who 
contribute to traditional IRAs 
(Appendix B) 54, 57
62 Publication 590-A (2025)

