--- PAGE 1 of p969.pdf ---
Userid: CPM Schema: tipx Leadpct: 100% Pt. size: 10  Draft  Ok to Print
AH XSL/XML Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source (Init. & Date) _______
Page 1 of 22  13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Publication 969
Health Savings 
Accounts and 
Other 
Tax-Favored 
Health Plans
For use in preparing
2025 Returns
Get forms and other information faster and easier at:
• IRS.gov (English) 
• IRS.gov/Spanish (Español) 
• IRS.gov/Chinese (中文) 
• IRS.gov/Korean (한국어) 
• IRS.gov/Russian (Pусский) 
• IRS.gov/Vietnamese (Tiếng Việt) 
Future Developments
Go to IRS.gov/Pub969 for the latest information about 
Pub. 969.
What’s New
Telehealth and other remote care services.  Public 
Law 119-21, July 4, 2025, amended Code section 223 to 
provide that:
1. A Health Savings Account (HSA) eligible individual 
may have disregarded coverage (besides the high de-
ductible health plan (HDHP)) for telehealth and other 
remote care, and
2. A plan will not fail to be treated as an HDHP by reason 
of failing to have a deductible for telehealth and other 
remote care services.
The amendments apply to plan years beginning after 
2024.
Health Flexible Spending Arrangement (FSA) contri-
bution and carryover for 2025.  Revenue Procedure 
2024-40, October 22, 2024, provides that for tax years be-
ginning in 2025, the dollar limitation under section 125(i) 
on voluntary employee salary reductions for contributions 
to Health Flexible Spending Arrangements is $3,300. If 
the cafeteria plan permits the carryover of unused 
amounts, the maximum carryover amount is $660.
Reminders
Preventive care for purposes of qualifying as an 
HDHP under section 223.  Notice 2024-75, October 28, 
2024, expands the list of preventive care benefits permit-
ted to be provided by an HDHP without a deductible or 
with a deductible below the applicable minimum deducti-
ble for the HDHP , to include over-the-counter oral contra-
ceptives (including emergency contraceptives) and male 
condoms. Notice 2024-75 also clarifies that (1) all types of 
breast cancer screening for individuals who have not been 
diagnosed with breast cancer are treated as preventive 
care, (2) continuous glucose monitors for individuals diag-
nosed with diabetes are generally treated as preventive 
care, and (3) the safe harbor for absence of a deductible 
for certain insulin products applies without regard to 
whether the insulin product is prescribed to treat an indi-
vidual diagnosed with diabetes or prescribed for the pur-
pose of preventing the exacerbation of diabetes or the de-
velopment of a secondary condition.
For more information on Notice 2024 -75, 2024 -44 
I.R.B. 1026, see IRS.gov/irb/2024-44_IRB#NOT -2024-75.
Expenses treated as amounts paid for medical care. 
Notice 2024-71, October 28, 2024, provides a safe harbor 
under section 213 of the Internal Revenue Code for 
amounts paid for condoms. The T reasury Department and 
the IRS will treat amounts paid for condoms as amounts 
Publication 969 (2025)  Catalog Number 24216S
Feb 11, 2026 Department of the T reasury  Internal Revenue Service  www.irs.gov

--- PAGE 2 of p969.pdf ---
Page 2 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
paid for medical care under section 213(d). Because 
amounts paid for condoms are treated as expenses for 
medical care under section 213(d), if the other require-
ments of section 213(a) are met (for example, if a taxpay-
er’s total medical expenses exceed the 7.5% adjusted 
gross income limitation and are not compensated for by 
insurance or otherwise), then amounts paid by the tax-
payer for condoms for the taxpayer, the taxpayer’s spouse, 
or the taxpayer’s dependent are deductible as expenses 
for medical care under section 213. Additionally, because 
amounts paid for condoms are treated as expenses for 
medical care under section 213(d), the amounts are also 
eligible to be paid or reimbursed under a health Flexible 
Spending Arrangement (FSA), Archer Medical Savings 
Account (MSA), Health Reimbursement Arrangement 
(HRA), or HSA. However, if an amount paid for condoms 
is paid or reimbursed under a health FSA, Archer MSA, 
HRA, HSA, or any other health plan or otherwise, it is not 
a deductible expense under section 213.
For more information on Notice 2024 -71, 2024 -44 
I.R.B. 1026, see IRS.gov/irb/2024-44_IRB#NOT -2024-71.
Expenses related to COVID -19 and preventive care 
for purposes of HDHPs.  Notice 2023 -37, June 23, 
2023, addresses the announced end of the COVID -19 
public health emergency and the National Emergency 
Concerning the Novel Coronavirus Disease 2019 Pan-
demic on May 11, 2023; it modifies prior guidance regard-
ing benefits relating to testing for and treatment of 
COVID-19 that can be provided by a health plan that oth-
erwise satisfies the requirements to be an HDHP under 
section 223(c)(2)(A) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code). 
Specifically, the relief described in Notice 2020 -15, 
2020-14 I.R.B 559, applies only with respect to plan years 
ending on or before December 31, 2024.
Notice 2023-37 also clarifies whether certain items and 
services are treated as preventive care under section 
223(c)(2)(C). Specifically, the preventive care safe harbor 
as described in Notice 2004 -23, 2004-15 I.R.B 725, does 
not include screening (for example, testing) for COVID-19, 
effective as of July 24, 2023. Notice 2023 -37 also pro-
vides that items and services recommended with an “A” or 
“B” rating by the United States Preventive Services T ask 
Force on or after March 23, 2010, are treated as preven-
tive care for purposes of section 223(c)(2)(C), regardless 
of whether these items and services must be covered, 
without cost sharing, under Public Health Service Act sec-
tion 2713.
For more information on Notice 2023 -37, 2023 -30 
I.R.B. 359, see IRS.gov/irb/2023-30_IRB#NOT -2023-37.
Insulin products. Public Law 117-169, August 16, 2022, 
amended section 223 to provide that an HDHP may have 
a $0 deductible for selected insulin products. The amend-
ment applies to plan years beginning after 2022.
Surprise billing for emergency services or air ambu-
lance services.  Public Law 116 -260, December 27, 
2020, amended section 223 to provide that an HDHP may 
provide benefits under federal and state anti-“surprise bill-
ing” laws with a $0 deductible. Also, an “eligible individual” 
remains eligible to make contributions to its HSA even if 
the individual receives anti-“surprise billing” benefits 
outside of the HDHP . The amendment applies to plan 
years beginning after 2021.
Note: Anti-“surprise billing” laws generally protect indi-
viduals from “surprise billing” for items like emergency 
medical services, some non-emergency medical services, 
and air ambulance services.
Caution: Ask your insurance provider whether your 
HDHP and any other coverage meet the requirements of 
section 223.
Caution: Ask your HSA trustee whether the HSA and 
trustee meet the requirements of section 223.
Photographs of missing children.  The Internal Reve-
nue Service is a proud partner with the National Center for 
Missing & Exploited Children® (NCMEC) . Photographs of 
missing children selected by the Center may appear in 
this publication on pages that would otherwise be blank. 
Y ou can help bring these children home by looking at the 
photographs and calling 800 -THE-LOST (800 -843-5678) 
if you recognize a child.
Introduction
Various programs are designed to give individuals tax ad-
vantages to offset health care costs. This publication ex-
plains the following programs.
• Health Savings Accounts (HSAs).
• Medical Savings Accounts (Archer MSAs and Medi-
care Advantage MSAs).
• Health Flexible Spending Arrangements (FSAs).
• Health Reimbursement Arrangements (HRAs).
An HSA may receive contributions from an eligible indi-
vidual or any other person, including an employer or a 
family member, on behalf of an eligible individual. Contri-
butions, other than employer contributions, are deductible 
on the eligible individual’s return whether or not the indi-
vidual itemizes deductions. Employer contributions aren’t 
included in income. Distributions from an HSA that are 
used to pay qualified medical expenses aren’t taxed.
An Archer MSA may receive contributions from an eligi-
ble individual and the eligible individual’s employer, but 
not both in the same year. Contributions by the individual 
are deductible whether or not the individual itemizes de-
ductions. Employer contributions aren’t included in in-
come. Distributions from an Archer MSA that are used to 
pay qualified medical expenses aren’t taxed.
A Medicare Advantage MSA is an Archer MSA desig-
nated by Medicare to be used solely to pay the qualified 
medical expenses of the account holder who is enrolled in 
Medicare. Contributions can be made only by Medicare. 
The contributions aren’t included in your income. Distribu-
tions from a Medicare Advantage MSA that are used to 
pay qualified medical expenses aren’t taxed.
A health FSA may receive contributions from an eligible 
individual. Employers may also contribute. Contributions 
aren’t includible in income. Reimbursements from an FSA 
2 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 3 of p969.pdf ---
Page 3 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
that are used to pay qualified medical expenses aren’t 
taxed.
An HRA must receive contributions from the employer 
only. Employees may not contribute. Contributions aren’t 
includible in income. Reimbursements from an HRA that 
are used to pay qualified medical expenses aren’t taxed.
Comments and suggestions.  We welcome your com-
ments about this publication and suggestions for future 
editions.
Y ou can send us comments through IRS.gov/
FormComments. Or you can write to the Internal Revenue 
Service, T ax Forms and Publications, 1111 Constitution 
Ave. NW, IR-6526, Washington, DC 20224.
Although we can’t respond individually to each com-
ment received, we do appreciate your feedback and will 
consider your comments and suggestions as we revise 
our tax forms, instructions, and publications. Don’t send 
tax questions, tax returns, or payments to the above ad-
dress.
Getting answers to your tax questions.  If you have 
a tax question not answered by this publication or the How 
T o Get T ax Help section at the end of this publication, go 
to the IRS Interactive T ax Assistant page at IRS.gov/
Help/ITA where you can find topics by using the search 
feature or viewing the categories listed.
Getting tax forms, instructions, and publications. 
Go to  IRS.gov/Forms to download current and prior -year 
forms, instructions, and publications.
Ordering tax forms, instructions, and publications. 
Go to IRS.gov/OrderForms to order current forms, instruc-
tions, and publications; call 800 -829-3676 to order 
prior-year forms and instructions. The IRS will process 
your order for forms and publications as soon as possible. 
Don’t resubmit requests you’ve already sent us. Y ou can 
get forms and publications faster online.
Health Savings Accounts 
(HSAs)
An HSA is a tax -exempt trust or custodial account you set 
up with a qualified HSA trustee to pay or reimburse certain 
medical expenses you incur. Y ou must be an eligible indi-
vidual to contribute to an HSA.
No permission or authorization from the IRS is neces-
sary to establish an HSA. Y ou set up an HSA with a 
trustee. A qualified HSA trustee can be a bank, an insur-
ance company, or anyone already approved by the IRS to 
be a trustee of individual retirement arrangements (IRAs) 
or Archer MSAs. The HSA can be established through a 
trustee that is different from your health plan provider.
Y our employer may already have some information on 
HSA trustees in your area.
Tip: If you have an Archer MSA, you can generally roll 
it over into an HSA tax free. See Rollovers, later.
What are the benefits of an HSA?  Y ou may enjoy sev-
eral benefits from having an HSA.
• Y ou can claim a tax deduction for contributions you or 
someone other than your employer make to your HSA 
even if you don’t itemize your deductions on Sched-
ule A (Form 1040).
• Contributions to your HSA made by your employer (in-
cluding contributions made through a cafeteria plan) 
may be excluded from your gross income.
• The contributions remain in your account until you use 
them.
• The interest or other earnings on the assets in the ac-
count are tax free.
• Distributions may be tax free if you pay qualified medi-
cal expenses.
• An HSA is “portable.” It stays with you if you change 
employers or leave the work force.
Qualifying for an HSA Contribution
T o be an eligible individual and qualify for an HSA contri-
bution, you must meet the following requirements.
• Y ou are covered under a high deductible health plan 
(HDHP), described later, on the first day of the month.
• Y ou have no other health coverage except what is per-
mitted under Other health coverage, later.
• Y ou aren’t enrolled in Medicare.
• Y ou can’t be claimed as a dependent on someone 
else’s 2025 tax return.
Tip: Under the last -month rule, you are considered to 
be an eligible individual for the entire year if you are an eli-
gible individual on the first day of the last month of your 
tax year (December 1 for most taxpayers) and you meet 
certain other requirements.
If you meet these requirements, you are an eligible indi-
vidual even if your spouse has non -HDHP family cover-
age, provided your spouse’s coverage doesn’t cover you.
Also, you may be an eligible individual even if you re-
ceive hospital care or medical services under any law ad-
ministered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs for a serv-
ice-connected disability.
Caution: If another taxpayer is entitled to claim you as 
a dependent, you can’t claim a deduction for an HSA con-
tribution. This is true even if the other person doesn’t re-
ceive an exemption deduction for you because the exemp-
tion amount is zero for tax years 2018 through 2025.
Tip: Each spouse who is an eligible individual who 
wants an HSA must open a separate HSA. Y ou can’t have 
a joint HSA.
High deductible health plan (HDHP). An HDHP has:
• A higher annual deductible than typical health plans, 
and
Publication 969 (2025) 3

--- PAGE 4 of p969.pdf ---
Page 4 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• A maximum limit on the sum of the annual deductible 
and out-of-pocket medical expenses that you must 
pay for covered expenses. Out-of-pocket expenses in-
clude co-payments and other amounts but don’t in-
clude premiums.
An HDHP may provide preventive care benefits without 
a deductible or with a deductible less than the minimum 
annual deductible. Preventive care includes but isn’t limi-
ted to the following.
1. Periodic health evaluations, including tests and diag-
nostic procedures ordered in connection with routine 
examinations, such as annual physicals.
2. Routine prenatal and well-child care.
3. Child and adult immunizations.
4. T obacco cessation programs.
5. Obesity weight-loss programs.
6. Screening services. This includes screening services 
for the following.
a. Cancer.
b. Heart and vascular diseases.
c. Infectious diseases.
d. Mental health conditions.
e. Substance abuse.
f. Metabolic, nutritional, and endocrine conditions.
g. Musculoskeletal disorders.
h. Obstetric and gynecological conditions.
i. Pediatric conditions.
j. Vision and hearing disorders.
For more information on screening services, see 
Notice 2004 -23, 2004 -15 I.R.B. 725, available at 
IRS.gov/irb/2004-15_IRB#NOT -2004-23.
For additional guidance on preventive care, see 
Notice 2004 -50, 2004 -2 C.B. 196, Q&A 26 and 27, 
available at IRS.gov/irb/2004-33_IRB#NOT -2004-50; 
Notice 2013 -57, 2013 -40 I.R.B. 293, available at 
IRS.gov/pub/irs-drop/n-13-57.pdf; and Notice 
2024-75, 2024 -44 I.R.B. 1026, available at 
IRS.gov/irb/2024-44_IRB#NOT -2024-75. Preventive 
care can also include coverage for treatment of indi-
viduals with certain chronic conditions listed in the Ap-
pendix of Notice 2019 -45, 2019-32 I.R.B. 593, if such 
services were received or items were incurred on or 
after July 17, 2019. For information on preventive care 
for chronic conditions, see Notice 2019 -45, 2019 -32 
I.R.B. 593, available at IRS.gov/pub/irs-drop/
n-19-45.pdf.
The following table shows the minimum annual deducti-
ble and maximum annual deductible and other 
out-of-pocket expenses for HDHPs for 2025.
Self-only coverage Family coverage
Minimum annual 
deductible $1,650  $3,300
Maximum annual 
deductible and other 
out-of-pocket 
expenses* $8,300  $16,600
* This limit doesn’t apply to deductibles and expenses for out-of-network 
services if the plan uses a network of providers. Instead, only deductibles 
and out-of-pocket expenses for services within the network should be used 
to figure whether the limit applies.
Tip: The following table shows the minimum annual 
deductible and maximum annual deductible and other 
out-of-pocket expenses for HDHPs for 2026.
Self-only coverage Family coverage
Minimum annual 
deductible $1,700 $3,400
Maximum annual 
deductible and other 
out-of-pocket 
expenses* $8,500 $17,000
* This limit doesn’t apply to deductibles and expenses for out-of-network 
services if the plan uses a network of providers. Instead, only deductibles 
and out-of-pocket expenses for services within the network should be used 
to figure whether the limit applies.
Self-only HDHP coverage is HDHP coverage for only 
an eligible individual. Family HDHP coverage is HDHP 
coverage for an eligible individual and at least one other 
individual (whether or not that individual is an eligible indi-
vidual).
Family plans that don’t meet the high deductible 
rules.  There are some family plans that have deductibles 
for both the family as a whole and for individual family 
members. Under these plans, if you meet the individual 
deductible for one family member, you don’t have to meet 
the higher annual deductible amount for the family. If ei-
ther the deductible for the family as a whole or the deduc-
tible for an individual family member is less than the mini-
mum annual deductible for family coverage, the plan 
doesn’t qualify as an HDHP .
Other health coverage.  If you (and your spouse, if 
you have family coverage) have HDHP coverage, you 
can’t generally have any other health coverage. However, 
you can still be an eligible individual even if your spouse 
has non-HDHP coverage, provided you aren’t covered by 
that plan.
Y ou can have additional insurance that provides bene-
fits only for the following items.
• Liabilities incurred under workers’ compensation laws, 
tort liabilities, or liabilities related to ownership or use 
of property.
• A specific disease or illness.
• A fixed amount per day (or other period) of hospitaliza-
tion.
4 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 5 of p969.pdf ---
Page 5 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Y ou can also have coverage (whether provided through 
insurance or otherwise) for the following items.
• Accidents.
• Disability.
• Dental care.
• Vision care.
• Long-term care.
• T elehealth and other remote care.
Caution: Plans in which substantially all of the cover-
age is through the items listed earlier aren’t HDHPs. For 
example, if your plan provides coverage substantially all of 
which is for a specific disease or illness, the plan isn’t an 
HDHP for purposes of establishing an HSA.
Prescription drug plans.  Y ou can have a prescrip-
tion drug plan, either as part of your HDHP or a separate 
plan (or rider), and qualify as an eligible individual if the 
plan doesn’t provide benefits until the minimum annual de-
ductible of the HDHP has been met. If you can receive 
benefits before that deductible is met, you aren’t an eligi-
ble individual.
Other employee health plans.  An employee cov-
ered by an HDHP and a health FSA or an HRA that pays 
or reimburses qualified medical expenses can’t generally 
make contributions to an HSA. FSAs and HRAs are dis-
cussed later.
However, an employee can make contributions to an 
HSA while covered under an HDHP and one or more of 
the following arrangements.
• Limited-purpose health FSA or HRA. These arrange-
ments can pay or reimburse the items listed earlier un-
der Other health coverage except long-term care. 
Also, these arrangements can pay or reimburse pre-
ventive care expenses because they can be paid with-
out having to satisfy the deductible.
• Suspended HRA. Before the beginning of an HRA 
coverage period, you can elect to suspend the HRA. 
The HRA doesn’t pay or reimburse, at any time, the 
medical expenses incurred during the suspension pe-
riod except preventive care and items listed under 
Other health coverage, earlier. When the suspension 
period ends, you are no longer eligible to make contri-
butions to an HSA.
• Post-deductible health FSA or HRA. These arrange-
ments don’t pay or reimburse any medical expenses 
incurred before the minimum annual deductible 
amount is met. The deductible for these arrangements 
doesn’t have to be the same as the deductible for the 
HDHP , but benefits may not be provided before the 
minimum annual deductible amount is met.
• Retiree-only HRA. This arrangement pays or reimbur-
ses only those medical expenses incurred after retire-
ment. After retirement with such an HRA, you are no 
longer eligible to make contributions to an HSA.
Health FSA—grace period.  Coverage during a grace 
period by a general purpose health FSA is allowed if the 
balance in the health FSA at the end of its prior -year plan 
is zero.
Contributions to an HSA
Any eligible individual can contribute to an HSA. For an 
employee’s HSA, the employee, the employee’s employer, 
or both may contribute to the employee’s HSA in the same 
year. For an HSA established by a self -employed (or un-
employed) individual, the individual can contribute. Family 
members or any other person may also make contribu-
tions on behalf of an eligible individual.
Contributions to an HSA must be made in cash. Contri-
butions of stock or property aren’t allowed.
Limit on Contributions
The amount you or any other person can contribute to 
your HSA depends on the type of HDHP coverage you 
have, your age, the date you become an eligible individ-
ual, and the date you cease to be an eligible individual. 
For 2025, if you have self -only HDHP coverage, you can 
contribute up to $4,300. If you have family HDHP cover-
age, you can contribute up to $8,550.
Tip: For 2026, if you have self -only HDHP coverage, 
you can contribute up to $4,400. If you have family HDHP 
coverage, you can contribute up to $8,750.
If you are or were considered (under the last-month 
rule, discussed later) an eligible individual for the entire 
year and didn’t change your type of coverage, you can 
contribute the full amount based on your type of coverage. 
However, if you weren’t an eligible individual for the entire 
year or changed your coverage during the year, your con-
tribution limit is the greater of:
1. The limitation shown on the Line 3 Limitation Chart 
and Worksheet in the Instructions for Form 8889, 
Health Savings Accounts (HSAs); or
2. The maximum annual HSA contribution based on 
your HDHP coverage (self-only or family) on the first 
day of the last month of your tax year.
Tip: If you had family HDHP coverage on the first day 
of the last month of your tax year, your contribution limit for 
2025 is $8,550 even if you changed coverage during the 
year.
Last-month rule. Under the last-month rule, if you are an 
eligible individual on the first day of the last month of your 
tax year (December 1 for most taxpayers), you are consid-
ered an eligible individual for the entire year. Y ou are trea-
ted as having the same HDHP coverage for the entire year 
as you had on the first day of the last month if you didn’t 
otherwise have coverage.
Testing period.  If contributions were made to your 
HSA based on you being an eligible individual for the en-
tire year under the last-month rule, you must remain an eli-
gible individual during the testing period. For the 
last-month rule, the testing period begins with the last 
Publication 969 (2025) 5

--- PAGE 6 of p969.pdf ---
Page 6 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
month of your tax year and ends on the last day of the 
12th month following that month (for example, December 
1, 2025, through December 31, 2026).
If you fail to remain an eligible individual during the test-
ing period, for reasons other than death or becoming disa-
bled, you will have to include in income the total contribu-
tions made to your HSA that wouldn’t have been made 
except for the last -month rule. Y ou include this amount in 
your income in the year in which you fail to be an eligible 
individual. This amount is also subject to a 10% additional 
tax. The income and additional tax are calculated on Form 
8889, Part III.
Example 1.  Y ou, age 53, become an eligible individ-
ual on December 1, 2025. Y ou have family HDHP cover-
age on that date. Under the last-month rule, you contribute 
$8,550 to your HSA.
Y ou fail to be an eligible individual in June 2026. Be-
cause you didn’t remain an eligible individual during the 
testing period (December 1, 2025, through December 31, 
2026), you must include in your 2026 income the contribu-
tions made for 2025 that wouldn’t have been made except 
for the last-month rule. Y ou use the worksheet in the Form 
8889 instructions to determine this amount.
January ................ -0-
February ................ -0-
March .................. -0-
April ................... -0-
May ................... -0-
June .................. -0-
July ................... -0-
August ................. -0-
September .............. -0-
October ................ -0-
November ............... -0-
December ............... $8,550.00
Total for all months ........ $8,550.00
Limitation. Divide the total by 12 $712.50
Y ou would include $7,837.50 ($8,550.00 − $712.50) in 
your gross income on your 2026 tax return. Also, a 10% 
additional tax applies to this amount.
Example 2.  Y ou, age 39, have self-only HDHP cover-
age on January 1, 2025. Y ou change to family HDHP cov-
erage on November 1, 2025. Because you have family 
HDHP coverage on December 1, 2025, you contribute 
$8,550 for 2025.
Y ou fail to be an eligible individual in March 2026. Be-
cause you didn’t remain an eligible individual during the 
testing period (December 1, 2025, through December 31, 
2026), you must include in income the contribution made 
that wouldn’t have been made except for the last -month 
rule. Y ou use the worksheet in the Form 8889 instructions 
to determine this amount.
January ................ $4,300.00
February ................ $4,300.00
March .................. $4,300.00
April ................... $4,300.00
May ................... $4,300.00
June .................. $4,300.00
July ................... $4,300.00
August ................. $4,300.00
September .............. $4,300.00
October ................ $4,300.00
November ............... $8,550.00
December ............... $8,550.00
Total for all months ........ $60,100.00
Limitation. Divide the total by 12 $5,008.33
Y ou would include $3,541.67 ($8,550.00 − $5,008.33) in 
your gross income on your 2026 tax return. Also, a 10% 
additional tax applies to this amount.
Additional contribution.  If you are an eligible individual 
who is age 55 or older at the end of your tax year, your 
contribution limit is increased by $1,000. For example, if 
you have self -only coverage, you can contribute up to 
$5,300 (the contribution limit for self -only coverage 
($4,300) plus the additional contribution of $1,000).
Caution: If you have more than one HSA in 2025, your 
total contributions to all the HSAs can’t be more than the 
limits discussed earlier.
Reduction of contribution limit.  Y ou must reduce the 
amount that can be contributed (including any additional 
contribution) to your HSA by the amount of any contribu-
tion made to your Archer MSA (including employer contri-
butions) for the year. A special rule applies to married peo-
ple, discussed next, if each spouse has family coverage 
under an HDHP .
Rules for married people.  If either spouse has family 
HDHP coverage, both spouses are treated as having fam-
ily HDHP coverage. If each spouse has family coverage 
under a separate plan, the contribution limit for 2025 is 
$8,550. Y ou must reduce the limit on contributions, before 
taking into account any additional contributions, by the 
amount contributed to both spouses’ Archer MSAs. After 
that reduction, the contribution limit is split equally be-
tween the spouses unless you agree on a different divi-
sion.
Caution: The rules for married people apply only if 
both spouses are eligible individuals.
If both spouses are 55 or older and not enrolled in Med-
icare, each spouse’s contribution limit is increased by the 
additional contribution. If both spouses meet the age re-
quirement, the total contributions under family coverage 
can’t be more than $10,550. Each spouse must make the 
additional contribution to their own HSA.
Employer contributions.  Y ou must reduce the 
amount you or any other person can contribute to your 
HSA by the amount of any contributions made by your em-
ployer that are excludable from your income. This includes 
6 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 7 of p969.pdf ---
Page 7 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
amounts contributed to your account by your employer 
through a cafeteria plan.
Enrolled in Medicare.  Beginning with the first month 
you are enrolled in Medicare, your contribution limit is 
zero. This rule applies to periods of retroactive Medicare 
coverage. So if you delayed applying for Medicare and 
later your enrollment is backdated, any contributions to 
your HSA made during the period of retroactive coverage 
are considered excess. See Excess contributions, later.
Example.  Y ou turned age 65 in July 2025 and enrol-
led in Medicare. Y ou had an HDHP with self-only coverage 
and are eligible for an additional contribution of $1,000. 
Y our contribution limit is $2,650 ($5,300 × 6 ÷ 12).
Qualified HSA funding distribution. A qualified HSA 
funding distribution may be made from your traditional IRA 
or Roth IRA to your HSA. This distribution can’t be made 
from an ongoing SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA. For this pur-
pose, a SEP IRA or SIMPLE IRA is ongoing if an employer 
contribution is made for the plan year ending with or within 
the tax year in which the distribution would be made.
The maximum qualified HSA funding distribution de-
pends on the HDHP coverage (self -only or family) you 
have on the first day of the month in which the contribution 
is made and your age as of the end of the tax year. The 
distribution must be made directly by the trustee of the 
IRA to the trustee of the HSA. The distribution isn’t inclu-
ded in your income, isn’t deductible, and reduces the 
amount that can be contributed to your HSA. The qualified 
HSA funding distribution is shown on Form 8889 for the 
year in which the distribution is made.
Y ou can generally make only one qualified HSA funding 
distribution during your lifetime. However, if you make a 
distribution during a month when you have self-only HDHP 
coverage, you can make another qualified HSA funding 
distribution in a later month in that tax year if you change 
to family HDHP coverage. The total qualified HSA funding 
distribution can’t be more than the contribution limit for 
family HDHP coverage plus any additional contribution to 
which you are entitled.
Funding distribution—testing period.  Y ou must re-
main an eligible individual during the testing period. For a 
qualified HSA funding distribution, the testing period be-
gins with the month in which the qualified HSA funding 
distribution is contributed and ends on the last day of the 
12th month following that month.
If you fail to remain an eligible individual during the test-
ing period for reasons other than death or becoming disa-
bled, you will have to include in income the qualified HSA 
funding distribution. Y ou include this amount in income in 
the year in which you fail to be an eligible individual. This 
amount is also subject to a 10% additional tax. The in-
come and the additional tax are calculated on Form 8889, 
Part III.
Each qualified HSA funding distribution allowed has its 
own testing period. For example, you are an eligible indi-
vidual, age 45, with self -only HDHP coverage. On June 
18, 2025, you make a qualified HSA funding distribution. 
On July 27, 2025, you enroll in family HDHP coverage and 
on August 17, 2025, you make a qualified HSA funding 
distribution. Y our testing period for the first distribution be-
gins in June 2025 and ends on June 30, 2026. Y our test-
ing period for the second distribution begins in August 
2025 and ends on August 31, 2026.
Rollovers
A rollover contribution isn’t included in your income, isn’t 
deductible, and doesn’t reduce your contribution limit.
Archer MSAs and other HSAs.  Y ou can roll over 
amounts from Archer MSAs and other HSAs into an HSA. 
Y ou don’t have to be an eligible individual to make a roll-
over contribution from your existing HSA to a new HSA. 
Rollover contributions don’t need to be in cash. Rollovers 
aren’t subject to the annual contribution limits.
Y ou must roll over the amount within 60 days after the 
date of receipt. Y ou can make only one rollover contribu-
tion to an HSA during a 1-year period.
Note:  If you instruct the trustee of your HSA to transfer 
funds directly to the trustee of another of your HSAs, the 
transfer isn’t considered a rollover. There is no limit on the 
number of these transfers. Don’t include the amount trans-
ferred in income, deduct it as a contribution, or include it 
as a distribution on Form 8889.
When To Contribute
Y ou can make contributions to your HSA for 2025 through 
April 15, 2026. If you fail to be an eligible individual during 
2025, you can still make contributions through April 15, 
2026, for the months you were an eligible individual.
Y our employer can make contributions to your HSA 
from January 1, 2026, through April 15, 2026, that are al-
located to 2025. Y our employer must notify you and the 
trustee of your HSA that the contribution is for 2025. The 
contribution will be reported on your 2026 Form W -2, 
Wage and T ax Statement.
Reporting Contributions on Your Return
Contributions made by your employer aren’t included in 
your income. Contributions to an employee’s account by 
an employer using the amount of an employee’s salary re-
duction through a cafeteria plan are treated as employer 
contributions. Generally, you can claim contributions you 
made and contributions made by any other person other 
than your employer on your behalf as a deduction.
Contributions by a partnership to a partner’s HSA that 
are treated as distributions to the partner are not deducti-
ble by the partnership and do not affect the distributive 
shares of partnership income and deductions. These dis-
tributions are not included in the partner’s net earnings 
from self-employment. The partner, if an eligible individual 
as defined in section 223(c)(1), is entitled to deduct the 
amount of the contributions made to the partner’s HSA 
during the tax year as an adjustment to gross income on 
their federal income tax return. For more information, see 
Publication 969 (2025) 7

--- PAGE 8 of p969.pdf ---
Page 8 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Notice 2005 -8, A -1, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2005-04_IRB#NOT -2005-8.
Contributions by a partnership to a partner’s HSA for 
services rendered to the partnership that are treated as 
guaranteed payments are deductible by the partnership 
and are includible in the partner’s gross income. Because 
the contributions are guaranteed payments that are de-
rived from the partnership’s trade or business and are for 
services rendered to the partnership, the contributions are 
included in the partner’s net earnings from self -employ-
ment. The partner, if an eligible individual as defined in 
section 223(c)(1), is entitled to deduct the amount of the 
contributions made to the partner’s HSA during the tax 
year as an adjustment to gross income on their federal in-
come tax return. For more information, see Notice 2005-8, 
A-2, available at IRS.gov/irb/2005-04_IRB#NOT -2005-8.
Contributions by an S corporation to a 2% share-
holder-employee’s HSA for services rendered are treated 
as guaranteed payments and are deductible by the S cor-
poration and includible in the shareholder -employee’s 
gross income. The shareholder -employee can deduct the 
contribution made to the shareholder-employee’s HSA.
Form 8889.  Report all contributions to your HSA on 
Form 8889 and file it with your Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 
1040-NR. Y ou should include all contributions made for 
2025, including those made from January 1, 2026, 
through April 15, 2026, that are designated for 2025. Con-
tributions made by your employer and qualified HSA fund-
ing distributions are also shown on the form.
Y ou should receive Form 5498-SA, HSA, Archer MSA, 
or Medicare Advantage MSA Information from the trustee 
showing the amount contributed to your HSA during the 
year. Y our employer’s contributions will also be shown on 
Form W -2, box 12, code W. Follow the Instructions for 
Form 8889. Report your HSA deduction on Form 1040, 
1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Excess contributions.  Y ou will have excess contribu-
tions if the contributions to your HSA for the year are 
greater than the limits discussed earlier. Excess contribu-
tions aren’t deductible. Excess contributions made by your 
employer are included in your gross income. If the excess 
contribution isn’t included in Form W-2, box 1 you must re-
port the excess as “Other income” on your tax return.
Generally, you must pay a 6% excise tax on excess 
contributions. See Form 5329, Additional T axes on Quali-
fied Plans (Including IRAs) and Other T ax -Favored Ac-
counts, to figure the excise tax. The excise tax applies to 
each tax year the excess contribution remains in the ac-
count.
Y ou may withdraw some or all of the excess contribu-
tions and avoid paying the excise tax on the amount with-
drawn if you meet the following conditions.
• Y ou withdraw the excess contributions by the due 
date, including extensions, of your tax return for the 
year the contributions were made.
• Y ou withdraw any income earned on the withdrawn 
contributions and include the earnings in “Other 
income” on your tax return for the year you withdraw 
the contributions and earnings.
Deducting an excess contribution in a later year.  Y ou 
may be able to deduct excess contributions for previous 
years that are still in your HSA. The excess contribution 
you can deduct for the current year is the lesser of the fol-
lowing two amounts.
• Y our maximum HSA contribution limit for the year mi-
nus any amounts contributed to your HSA for the year.
• The total excess contributions in your HSA at the be-
ginning of the year.
Amounts contributed for the year include contributions 
by you, your employer, and any other person. They also 
include any qualified HSA funding distribution made to 
your HSA. Any excess contribution remaining at the end of 
a tax year is subject to the excise tax. See Form 5329.
Distributions From an HSA
Y ou will generally pay medical expenses during the year 
without being reimbursed by your HDHP until you reach 
the annual deductible for the plan. When you pay medical 
expenses during the year that aren’t reimbursed by your 
HDHP , you can ask the trustee of your HSA to send you a 
distribution from your HSA.
Y ou can receive tax-free distributions from your HSA to 
pay or be reimbursed for qualified medical expenses you 
incur after you establish the HSA. If you receive distribu-
tions for other reasons, the amount you withdraw will be 
subject to income tax and may be subject to an additional 
20% tax. Y ou don’t have to make withdrawals from your 
HSA each year.
Generally, a distribution is money you get from your 
HSA. Y our total distributions include amounts paid with a 
debit card and amounts withdrawn from the HSA by other 
individuals that you have designated. The trustee will re-
port any distribution to you and the IRS on Form 1099 -SA, 
Distributions From an HSA, Archer MSA, or Medicare Ad-
vantage MSA.
Qualified medical expenses. In general, “qualified med-
ical expenses” means amounts paid by the HSA benefi-
ciary for “medical care” (as defined in Code section 
213(d)) for the individual, the spouse of the individual, and 
any dependent of the individual, but only to the extent the 
amounts are not compensated for by insurance or other-
wise. Amounts paid for menstrual care products are trea-
ted as paid for medical care.
For HSA purposes, expenses incurred before you es-
tablish your HSA aren’t qualified medical expenses. State 
law determines when an HSA is established. An HSA that 
is funded by amounts rolled over from an Archer MSA or 
another HSA is established on the date the prior account 
was established.
If, under the last -month rule, you are considered to be 
an eligible individual for the entire year for determining the 
contribution amount, only those expenses incurred after 
you actually establish your HSA are qualified medical 
expenses.
8 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 9 of p969.pdf ---
Page 9 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Qualified medical expenses include those incurred by 
the following persons.
1. Y ou and your spouse.
2. All dependents you claim on your tax return.
3. Any person you could have claimed as a dependent 
on your return except that:
a. The person filed a joint return;
b. The person had gross income equal to or more 
than the exemption amount or
c. Y ou, or your spouse if filing jointly, could be 
claimed as a dependent on someone else’s return.
Tip: For this purpose, a child of parents that are di-
vorced, separated, or living apart for the last 6 months of 
the calendar year is treated as the dependent of both pa-
rents whether or not the custodial parent releases the 
claim to the child’s exemption.
Caution: Y ou can’t deduct qualified medical expenses 
as an itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) that 
are equal to the tax-free distribution from your HSA.
Insurance premiums.  Y ou may not use HSA funds to 
pay for insurance, except for the following.
1. Long-term care insurance.
2. Health care continuation coverage (such as coverage 
under COBRA).
3. Health care coverage while receiving unemployment 
compensation under federal or state law.
4. Medicare and other health care coverage if you were 
65 or older (other than premiums for a Medicare sup-
plemental policy, such as Medigap).
The premiums for long -term care insurance (item (1)) 
that you can treat as qualified medical expenses are sub-
ject to limits based on age and are adjusted annually. See 
Limit on long -term care premiums you can deduct  in the 
Instructions for Schedule A (Form 1040).
Items (2) and (3) can be for your spouse or a depend-
ent meeting the requirement for that type of coverage. For 
item (4), if you, the account beneficiary, aren’t 65 or older, 
Medicare premiums for coverage of your spouse or a de-
pendent (who is 65 or older) aren’t generally qualified 
medical expenses.
Deemed distributions from HSAs.  The following situa-
tions result in deemed taxable distributions from your 
HSA.
• Y ou engaged in any transaction prohibited by section 
4975 with respect to any of your HSAs at any time in 
2025. Y our account ceases to be an HSA as of Janu-
ary 1, 2025, and you must include the fair market 
value of all assets in the account as of January 1, 
2025, on Form 8889.
• Y ou used any portion of any of your HSAs as security 
for a loan at any time in 2025. Y ou must include the fair 
market value of the assets used as security for the 
loan as income on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Examples of prohibited transactions include the direct 
or indirect:
• Sale, exchange, or leasing of property between you 
and the HSA;
• Lending of money between you and the HSA;
• Furnishing goods, services, or facilities between you 
and the HSA; and
• T ransfer to or use by you or for your benefit of any as-
sets of the HSA.
Any deemed distributions won’t be treated as used to 
pay qualified medical expenses. These distributions are 
included in your income and are subject to the additional 
20% tax, discussed later.
Recordkeeping. Y ou must keep records sufficient to 
show that:
• The distributions were exclusively to pay or reimburse 
qualified medical expenses,
• The qualified medical expenses hadn’t been previ-
ously paid or reimbursed from another source, and
• The medical expenses hadn’t been taken as an item-
ized deduction in any year.
Don’t send these records with your tax return. Keep them 
with your tax records.
Reporting Distributions on Your Return
How you report your distributions depends on whether or 
not you use the distribution for qualified medical expen-
ses.
• If you use a distribution from your HSA for qualified 
medical expenses, you don’t pay tax on the distribu-
tion but you have to report the distribution on Form 
8889. However, the distribution of an excess contribu-
tion taken out after the due date, including extensions, 
of your return is subject to tax even if used for qualified 
medical expenses. Follow the instructions for the form 
and file it with your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
• If you don’t use a distribution from your HSA for quali-
fied medical expenses, you must pay tax on the distri-
bution. Report the amount on Form 8889 and file it 
with your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Y ou may 
have to pay an additional 20% tax on your taxable dis-
tribution.
Tip: HSA administration and maintenance fees with-
drawn by the trustee aren’t reported as distributions from 
the HSA.
Additional tax.  There is an additional 20% tax on the 
part of your distributions not used for qualified medical ex-
penses. Figure the tax on Form 8889 and file it with your 
Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Publication 969 (2025) 9

--- PAGE 10 of p969.pdf ---
Page 10 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Exceptions.  There is no additional tax on distribu-
tions made after the date you are disabled, reach age 65, 
or die.
Balance in an HSA
An HSA is generally exempt from tax. Y ou are permitted to 
take a distribution from your HSA at any time; however, 
only those amounts used exclusively to pay for qualified 
medical expenses are tax free. Amounts that remain at the 
end of the year are generally carried over to the next year. 
Earnings on amounts in an HSA aren’t included in your in-
come while held in the HSA.
Death of HSA Holder
Y ou should choose a beneficiary when you set up your 
HSA. What happens to that HSA when you die depends 
on whom you designate as the beneficiary.
Spouse is the designated beneficiary.  If your spouse 
is the designated beneficiary of your HSA, it will be treated 
as your spouse’s HSA after your death.
Spouse isn’t the designated beneficiary.  If your 
spouse isn’t the designated beneficiary of your HSA:
• The account stops being an HSA, and
• The fair market value of the HSA becomes taxable to 
the beneficiary in the year in which you die.
If your estate is the beneficiary, the value is included on 
your final income tax return. The amount taxable to a ben-
eficiary other than the estate is reduced by any qualified 
medical expenses for the decedent that are paid by the 
beneficiary within 1 year after the date of death.
Filing Form 8889
Y ou must file Form 8889 with your Form 1040, 1040 -SR, 
or 1040-NR if you (or your spouse, if married filing jointly) 
had any activity in your HSA during the year. Y ou must file 
the form even if only your employer or your spouse’s em-
ployer made contributions to the HSA.
If, during the tax year, you are the beneficiary of two or 
more HSAs or you are a beneficiary of an HSA and you 
have your own HSA, you must complete a separate Form 
8889 for each HSA. Enter “statement” at the top of each 
Form 8889 and complete the form as instructed. Next, 
complete a controlling Form 8889 combining the amounts 
shown on each of the statement Forms 8889. Attach the 
statements to your tax return after the controlling Form 
8889.
Employer Participation
This section contains the rules that employers must follow 
if they decide to make HSAs available to their employees. 
Unlike the previous discussions, “you” refers to the em-
ployer and not to the employee.
Health plan.  If you want your employees to be able to 
have HSAs, they must have an HDHP . Y ou can provide no 
additional coverage other than those exceptions listed 
earlier under Other health coverage.
Contributions.  Y ou can make contributions to your em-
ployees’ HSAs. Y ou deduct the contributions on your busi-
ness income tax return for the year in which you make the 
contributions. If the contribution is allocated to the prior 
year, you still deduct it in the year in which you made the 
contribution.
For more information on employer contributions, see 
Notice 2008-59, 2008-29 I.R.B. 123, questions 23 through 
27, available at IRS.gov/irb/2008-29_IRB/ar11.html.
Comparable contributions.  If you decide to make con-
tributions, you must make comparable contributions to all 
comparable participating employees’ HSAs. Y our contri-
butions are comparable if they are either:
• The same amount, or
• The same percentage of the annual deductible limit 
under the HDHP covering the employees.
The comparability rules don’t apply to contributions made 
through a cafeteria plan.
Comparable participating employees.  Comparable 
participating employees:
• Are covered by your HDHP and are eligible to estab-
lish an HSA,
• Have the same category of coverage (either self-only 
or family coverage), and
• Have the same category of employment (part time, full 
time, or former employees).
T o meet the comparability requirements for eligible em-
ployees who have neither established an HSA by Decem-
ber 31 nor notified you that they have an HSA, you must 
meet a notice requirement and a contribution requirement.
Y ou will meet the notice requirement if by January 15 of 
the following calendar year you provide a written notice to 
all such employees. The notice must state that each eligi-
ble employee who, by the last day of February, establishes 
an HSA and notifies you that the eligible employee has es-
tablished an HSA will receive a comparable contribution to 
the HSA for the prior year. For a sample of the notice, see 
Regulations section 54. 4980G-4 A -14(c). Y ou will meet 
the contribution requirement for these employees if by 
April 15, 2026, you contribute comparable amounts plus 
reasonable interest to the employees’ HSAs for the prior 
year.
Note:  For purposes of making contributions to HSAs 
of non-highly compensated employees, highly compensa-
ted employees may not be treated as comparable partici-
pating employees.
Excise tax.  If you made contributions to your employees’ 
HSAs that weren’t comparable, you must pay an excise 
tax of 35% of the amount you contributed.
10 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 11 of p969.pdf ---
Page 11 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Employment taxes.  Amounts you contribute to your em-
ployees’ HSAs aren’t generally subject to employment 
taxes. Y ou must report the contributions (including 
amounts the employee elected to contribute through a caf-
eteria plan) on Form W-2, box 12, code W.
Medical Savings Accounts 
(MSAs)
Archer MSAs were created to help self-employed individu-
als and employees of certain small employers meet the 
medical care costs of the account holder, the account 
holder’s spouse, or the account holder’s dependent(s).
Caution: After 2007, you can’t be treated as an eligible 
individual for Archer MSA purposes unless:
1. Y ou were an active participant for any tax year ending 
before 2008, or
2. Y ou became an active participant for a tax year ending 
after 2007 by reason of coverage under a high deduc-
tible health plan (HDHP) of an Archer MSA participat-
ing employer.
A Medicare Advantage MSA is an Archer MSA desig-
nated by Medicare to be used solely to pay the qualified 
medical expenses of the account holder who is eligible for 
Medicare.
Archer MSAs
An Archer MSA is a tax -exempt trust or custodial account 
that you set up with a U.S. financial institution (such as a 
bank or an insurance company) in which you can save 
money exclusively for future medical expenses.
What are the benefits of an Archer MSA?  Y ou may 
enjoy several benefits from having an Archer MSA.
• Y ou can claim a tax deduction for contributions you 
make even if you don’t itemize your deductions on 
Schedule A (Form 1040) or Schedule A (Form 
1040-NR). However, you may not claim a deduction if 
you are a dependent of another taxpayer.
• The interest or other earnings on the assets in your 
Archer MSA are tax free.
• Distributions may be tax free if you pay qualified medi-
cal expenses.
• The contributions remain in your Archer MSA until you 
use them.
• An Archer MSA is “portable,” so it stays with you if you 
change employers or leave the work force.
Qualifying for an Archer MSA
T o qualify for an Archer MSA, you must be either of the fol-
lowing.
• An employee (or the spouse of an employee) of a 
small employer (defined later) that maintains a 
self-only or family HDHP for you (or your spouse).
• A self-employed person (or the spouse of a self-em-
ployed person) who maintains a self-only or family 
HDHP .
Y ou can have no other health or Medicare coverage ex-
cept what is permitted under Other health coverage, later. 
Y ou must be an eligible individual on the first day of a 
given month to get an Archer MSA deduction for that 
month.
Small employer.  A small employer is generally an em-
ployer who had an average of 50 or fewer employees dur-
ing either of the last 2 calendar years.
Growing employer.  A small employer may begin 
HDHPs and Archer MSAs for its employees and then grow 
beyond 50 employees. The employer will continue to meet 
the requirement for small employers if the employer:
• Had 50 or fewer employees when the Archer MSAs 
began,
• Made a contribution that was excludable or deductible 
as an Archer MSA for the last year the employer had 
50 or fewer employees, and
• Had an average of 200 or fewer employees each year 
after 1996.
Changing employers.  If you change employers, your 
Archer MSA moves with you. However, you may not make 
additional contributions unless you are otherwise eligible.
High deductible health plan (HDHP).  T o be eligible to 
contribute to an Archer MSA, you must be covered under 
an HDHP . An HDHP has:
• A higher annual deductible than typical health plans, 
and
• A maximum limit on the annual out-of-pocket medical 
expenses that you must pay for covered expenses.
Limits.  The following table shows the limits for annual 
deductibles and the maximum out -of-pocket expenses for 
HDHPs for 2025.
Self-only coverage Family coverage
Minimum annual 
deductible $2,850 $5,700
Maximum annual 
deductible $4,300 $8,550
Maximum annual 
out-of-pocket 
expenses $5,700 $10,500
Family plans that don’t meet the high deductible 
rules.  There are some family plans that have deductibles 
Publication 969 (2025) 11

--- PAGE 12 of p969.pdf ---
Page 12 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
for both the family as a whole and for individual family 
members. Under these plans, if you meet the individual 
deductible for one family member, you don’t have to meet 
the higher annual deductible amount for the family. If ei-
ther the deductible for the family as a whole or the deduc-
tible for an individual family member is less than the mini-
mum annual deductible for family coverage, the plan 
doesn’t qualify as an HDHP .
Other health coverage.  If you (and your spouse, if you 
have family coverage) have HDHP coverage, you can’t 
generally have any other health coverage. However, you 
can still be an eligible individual even if your spouse has 
non-HDHP coverage, provided you aren’t covered by that 
plan. However, you can have additional insurance that 
provides benefits only for the following items.
• Liabilities incurred under workers’ compensation laws, 
torts, or ownership or use of property.
• A specific disease or illness.
• A fixed amount per day (or other period) of hospitaliza-
tion.
Y ou can also have coverage (whether provided through in-
surance or otherwise) for the following items.
• Accidents.
• Disability.
• Dental care.
• Vision care.
• Long-term care.
Contributions to an MSA
Contributions to an Archer MSA must be made in cash.
Who can contribute to my Archer MSA?  Y ou can con-
tribute except if:
1. Y our employer contributes; or
2. Y our spouse is covered by your HDHP and your spou-
se’s employer contributes to your spouse’s Archer 
MSA.
Limits
There are two limits on the amount you or your employer 
can contribute to your Archer MSA.
• The annual deductible limit.
• An income limit.
Annual deductible limit.  Y ou or your employer can con-
tribute up to 75% of the annual deductible of your HDHP 
(65% if you have a self-only plan) to your Archer MSA. Y ou 
must have the HDHP all year to contribute the full amount. 
If you don’t qualify to contribute the full amount for the 
year, determine your annual deductible limit by using the 
Line 3 Limitation Chart and Worksheet in the Instructions 
for Form 8853, Archer MSAs and Long -T erm Care Insur-
ance Contracts. If you and your spouse each have a family 
plan, you are treated as having family coverage with the 
lower annual deductible of the two health plans. The con-
tribution limit is split equally between the two of you unless 
you agree on a different division.
Income limit.  Y ou can’t contribute more than you earned 
for the year from the employer through whom you have 
your HDHP .
If you are self-employed, you can’t contribute more than 
your net self -employment income. This is your income 
from self-employment minus expenses (including the de-
ductible part of self-employment tax).
Individuals enrolled in Medicare.  Beginning with the 
first month you are enrolled in Medicare, you can’t contrib-
ute to an Archer MSA. However, you may be eligible for a 
Medicare Advantage MSA, discussed later.
When To Contribute
Y ou can make contributions to your Archer MSA for 2025 
through April 15, 2026.
Reporting Contributions on Your Return
Report all contributions to your Archer MSA on Form 8853 
and file it with your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Y ou 
should include all contributions you or your employer 
made for 2025, including those made from January 1, 
2026, through April 15, 2026, that are designated for 
2025.
Y ou should receive Form 5498-SA, HSA, Archer MSA, 
or Medicare Advantage MSA Information from the trustee 
showing the amount you or your employer contributed dur-
ing the year. Y our employer’s contributions should be 
shown on Form W -2, box 12, code R. Follow the Instruc-
tions for Form 8853 and complete the Line 3 Limitation 
Chart and Worksheet in the instructions. Report your 
Archer MSA deduction on Form 1040, 1040 -SR, or 
1040-NR.
Excess contributions.  Y ou will have excess contribu-
tions if the contributions to your Archer MSA for the year 
are greater than the limits discussed earlier. Excess con-
tributions aren’t deductible. Excess contributions made by 
your employer are included in your gross income. If the ex-
cess contribution isn’t included in Form W -2, box 1, you 
must report the excess as “Other income” on your tax re-
turn.
Generally, you must pay a 6% excise tax on excess 
contributions. See Form 5329, Additional T axes on Quali-
fied Plans (Including IRAs) and Other T ax -Favored Ac-
counts, to figure the excise tax. The excise tax applies to 
each tax year the excess contribution remains in the ac-
count.
Y ou may withdraw some or all of the excess contribu-
tions and avoid paying the excise tax on the amount with-
drawn if you meet the following conditions.
• Y ou withdraw the excess contributions by the due 
date, including extensions, of your tax return.
12 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 13 of p969.pdf ---
Page 13 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• Y ou withdraw any income earned on the withdrawn 
contributions and include the earnings in “Other in-
come” on your tax return for the year you withdraw the 
contributions and earnings.
Deducting an excess contribution in a later year.  Y ou 
may be able to deduct excess contributions for previous 
years that are still in your Archer MSA. The excess contri-
bution you can deduct in the current year is the lesser of 
the following two amounts.
• Y our maximum Archer MSA contribution limit for the 
year minus any amounts contributed to your Archer 
MSA for the year.
• The total excess contributions in your Archer MSA at 
the beginning of the year.
Any excess contributions remaining at the end of a tax 
year are subject to the excise tax. See Form 5329.
Distributions From an MSA
Y ou will generally pay medical expenses during the year 
without being reimbursed by your HDHP until you reach 
the annual deductible for the plan. When you pay medical 
expenses during the year that aren’t reimbursed by your 
HDHP , you can ask the trustee of your Archer MSA to 
send you a distribution from your Archer MSA.
Y ou can receive tax-free distributions from your Archer 
MSA to pay for qualified medical expenses (discussed 
later). If you receive distributions for other reasons, the 
amount will be subject to income tax and may be subject 
to an additional 20% tax as well. Y ou don’t have to make 
withdrawals from your Archer MSA each year.
Tip: If you no longer qualify to make contributions, you 
can still receive tax -free distributions to pay or reimburse 
your qualified medical expenses.
A distribution is money you get from your Archer MSA. 
The trustee will report any distribution to you and the IRS 
on Form 1099 -SA, Distributions From an HSA, Archer 
MSA, or Medicare Advantage MSA.
Qualified medical expenses.  In general, “qualified 
medical expenses” means amounts paid by the MSA 
holder for “medical care” (as defined in Code section 
213(d)) for the individual, the spouse of the individual, and 
any dependent of the individual, but only to the extent the 
amounts are not compensated for by insurance or other-
wise. Amounts paid for menstrual care products are trea-
ted as paid for medical care.
Qualified medical expenses include those incurred by 
the following persons.
1. Y ou and your spouse.
2. All dependents you claim on your tax return.
3. Any person you could have claimed as a dependent 
on your return except that:
a. The person filed a joint return;
b. The person had gross income equal to or more 
than the exemption amount; or
c. Y ou, or your spouse if filing jointly, could be 
claimed as a dependent on someone else’s 2025 
return.
Tip: For this purpose, a child of parents that are di-
vorced, separated, or living apart for the last 6 months of 
the calendar year is treated as the dependent of both pa-
rents whether or not the custodial parent releases the 
claim to the child’s exemption.
Caution: Y ou can’t deduct qualified medical expenses 
as an itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) that 
are equal to the tax -free distribution from your Archer 
MSA.
Special rules for insurance premiums.  Generally, 
you can’t treat insurance premiums as qualified medical 
expenses for Archer MSAs. Y ou can, however, treat premi-
ums for long -term care coverage, health care coverage 
while you receive unemployment benefits, or health care 
continuation coverage required under any federal law as 
qualified medical expenses for Archer MSAs.
Deemed distributions from Archer MSAs.  The follow-
ing situations result in deemed taxable distributions from 
your Archer MSA.
• Y ou engaged in any transaction prohibited by section 
4975 with respect to any of your Archer MSAs at any 
time in 2025. Y our account ceases to be an Archer 
MSA as of January 1, 2025, and you must include the 
fair market value of all assets in the account as of Jan-
uary 1, 2025, on Form 8853.
• Y ou used any portion of any of your Archer MSAs as 
security for a loan at any time in 2025. Y ou must in-
clude the fair market value of the assets used as se-
curity for the loan as income on Form 1040, 1040-SR, 
or 1040-NR.
Examples of prohibited transactions include the direct 
or indirect:
• Sale, exchange, or leasing of property between you 
and the Archer MSA;
• Lending of money between you and the Archer MSA;
• Furnishing goods, services, or facilities between you 
and the Archer MSA; and
• T ransfer to or use by you, or for your benefit, of any as-
sets of the Archer MSA.
Any deemed distribution won’t be treated as used to 
pay qualified medical expenses. These distributions are 
included in your income and are subject to the additional 
20% tax, discussed later.
Recordkeeping: Y ou must keep records sufficient to 
show that:
• The distributions were exclusively to pay or reimburse 
qualified medical expenses,
• The qualified medical expenses hadn’t been previ-
ously paid or reimbursed from another source, and
Publication 969 (2025) 13

--- PAGE 14 of p969.pdf ---
Page 14 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
• The medical expenses hadn’t been taken as an item-
ized deduction in any year.
Don’t send these records with your tax return. Keep them 
with your tax records.
Reporting Distributions on Your Return
How you report your distributions depends on whether or 
not you use the distribution for qualified medical expen-
ses.
• If you use a distribution from your Archer MSA for 
qualified medical expenses, you don’t pay tax on the 
distribution but you have to report the distribution on 
Form 8853. Follow the instructions for the form and file 
it with your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
• If you don’t use a distribution from your Archer MSA 
for qualified medical expenses, you must pay tax on 
the distribution. Report the amount on Form 8853 and 
file it with your Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR. Y ou 
may have to pay an additional 20% tax, discussed 
later, on your taxable distribution.
Caution: If an amount (other than a rollover) is contrib-
uted to your Archer MSA this year (by you or your em-
ployer), you must also report and pay tax on a distribution 
you receive from your Archer MSA this year that is used to 
pay medical expenses of someone who isn’t covered by 
an HDHP or is also covered by another health plan that 
isn’t an HDHP at the time the expenses are incurred.
Rollovers.  Generally, any distribution from an Archer 
MSA that you roll over into another Archer MSA or an HSA 
isn’t taxable if you complete the rollover within 60 days. An 
Archer MSA and an HSA can receive only one rollover 
contribution during a 1-year period. See the Form 8853 in-
structions for more information.
Additional tax. There is a 20% additional tax on the part 
of your distributions not used for qualified medical expen-
ses. Figure the tax on Form 8853 and file it with your Form 
1040, 1040-SR, or 1040 -NR. Report the additional tax in 
the total on Form 1040, 1040-SR, or 1040-NR.
Exceptions.  There is no additional tax on distribu-
tions made after the date you are disabled, reach age 65, 
or die.
Balance in an Archer MSA
An Archer MSA is generally exempt from tax. Y ou are per-
mitted to take a distribution from your Archer MSA at any 
time; however, only those amounts used exclusively to pay 
for qualified medical expenses are tax free. Amounts that 
remain at the end of the year are generally carried over to 
the next year. Earnings on amounts in an Archer MSA 
aren’t included in your income while held in the Archer 
MSA.
Death of the Archer MSA Holder
Y ou should choose a beneficiary when you set up your 
Archer MSA. What happens to that Archer MSA when you 
die depends on whom you designate as the beneficiary.
Spouse is the designated beneficiary.  If your spouse 
is the designated beneficiary of your Archer MSA, it will be 
treated as your spouse’s Archer MSA after your death.
Spouse isn’t the designated beneficiary.  If your 
spouse isn’t the designated beneficiary of your Archer 
MSA:
• The account stops being an Archer MSA, and
• The fair market value of the Archer MSA becomes tax-
able to the beneficiary in the year in which you die.
If your estate is the beneficiary, the fair market value of 
the Archer MSA will be included on your final income tax 
return.
Tip: The amount taxable to a beneficiary other than the 
estate is reduced by any qualified medical expenses for 
the decedent that are paid by the beneficiary within 1 year 
after the date of death.
Filing Form 8853
Y ou must file Form 8853 with your Form 1040, 1040 -SR, 
or 1040-NR if you (or your spouse, if married filing a joint 
return) had any activity in your Archer MSA during the 
year. Y ou must file the form even if only your employer or 
your spouse’s employer made contributions to the Archer 
MSA.
If, during the tax year, you are the beneficiary of two or 
more Archer MSAs or you are a beneficiary of an Archer 
MSA and you have your own Archer MSA, you must com-
plete a separate Form 8853 for each MSA. Enter “state-
ment” at the top of each Form 8853 and complete the form 
as instructed. Next, complete a controlling Form 8853 
combining the amounts shown on each of the statement 
Forms 8853. Attach the statements to your tax return after 
the controlling Form 8853.
Employer Participation
This section contains the rules that employers must follow 
if they decide to make Archer MSAs available to their em-
ployees. Unlike the previous discussions, “you” refers to 
the employer and not to the employee.
Health plan.  If you want your employees to be able to 
have Archer MSAs, you must make an HDHP available to 
them. Y ou can provide no additional coverage other than 
those exceptions listed earlier under Other health cover-
age.
Contributions.  Y ou can make contributions to your em-
ployees’ Archer MSAs and deduct them for the year in 
which you make them.
14 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 15 of p969.pdf ---
Page 15 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Comparable contributions.  If you decide to make con-
tributions, you must make comparable contributions to all 
comparable participating employees’ Archer MSAs. Y our 
contributions are comparable if they are either:
• The same amount, or
• The same percentage of the annual deductible limit 
under the HDHP covering the employees.
Comparable participating employees.  Comparable 
participating employees:
• Are covered by your HDHP and are eligible to estab-
lish an Archer MSA,
• Have the same category of coverage (either self-only 
or family coverage), and
• Have the same category of employment (either part 
time or full time).
Excise tax.  If you made contributions to your employees’ 
Archer MSAs that weren’t comparable, you must pay an 
excise tax of 35% of the amount you contributed.
Employment taxes.  Amounts you contribute to your em-
ployees’ Archer MSAs aren’t generally subject to employ-
ment taxes. Y ou must report the contributions on Form 
W-2, box 12, code R.
Medicare Advantage MSAs
A Medicare Advantage MSA is an Archer MSA designated 
by Medicare to be used solely to pay the qualified medical 
expenses of the account holder. T o be eligible for a Medi-
care Advantage MSA, you must be enrolled in Medicare 
and have an HDHP that meets the Medicare guidelines.
A Medicare Advantage MSA is a tax -exempt trust or 
custodial savings account that you set up with a financial 
institution (such as a bank or an insurance company) in 
which the Medicare program can deposit money for quali-
fied medical expenses. The money in your account isn’t 
taxed if it is used for qualified medical expenses, and it 
may earn interest or dividends.
An HDHP is a special health insurance policy that has a 
high deductible. Y ou choose the policy you want to use as 
part of your Medicare Advantage MSA plan. However, the 
policy must be approved by the Medicare program.
Medicare Advantage MSAs are administered through 
the federal Medicare program. Y ou can get information by 
calling 800-MEDICARE (800-633-4227) or through the In-
ternet at Medicare.gov.
Note:  See the Instructions for Form 8853, Archer 
MSAs and Long -T erm Care Insurance Contracts, to learn 
whether you must file Form 8853.
Flexible Spending 
Arrangements (FSAs)
A health FSA allows employees to be reimbursed for med-
ical expenses. FSAs are usually funded through voluntary 
salary reduction agreements with your employer. The em-
ployer may also contribute.
For information on the interaction between a health 
FSA and an HSA, see Other employee health plans under 
Qualifying for an HSA, earlier.
What are the benefits of an FSA?  Y ou may enjoy sev-
eral benefits from having an FSA.
• Contributions made by your employer can be exclu-
ded from your gross income.
• No employment or federal income taxes are deducted 
from the contributions.
• Reimbursements may be tax free if you pay qualified 
medical expenses.
• Y ou can use an FSA to pay qualified medical expen-
ses even if funds have not yet been credited to the ar-
rangement.
Qualifying for an FSA
Health FSAs are employer -established benefit plans. 
These may be offered in conjunction with other em-
ployer-provided benefits as part of a cafeteria plan. Em-
ployers have flexibility to offer various combinations of 
benefits in designing their plans.
Self-employed persons aren’t eligible for FSAs.
Caution: Certain limitations may apply if you are a 
highly compensated participant or a key employee.
Contributions to an FSA
Y ou contribute to your FSA by electing an amount to be 
voluntarily withheld from your pay by your employer. This 
is sometimes called a “salary reduction agreement.” The 
employer may also contribute to your FSA if specified in 
the plan.
Y ou don’t pay federal income tax or employment taxes 
on the salary you contribute or the amounts your employer 
contributes to the FSA. However, contributions made by 
your employer to provide coverage for long -term care 
must be included in income.
When To Contribute
At the beginning of the plan year, you must designate how 
much you want to contribute. Then your employer will de-
duct amounts periodically (generally, every payday) in ac-
cordance with your annual election. Y ou can change or re-
voke your election only if specifically allowed by law and 
the plan.
Publication 969 (2025) 15

--- PAGE 16 of p969.pdf ---
Page 16 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Amount of Contribution
For tax years beginning in 2025, the dollar limitation under 
Code section 125(i) on voluntary employee salary reduc-
tions for contributions to health flexible spending arrange-
ments is $3,300. If the cafeteria plan permits the carryover 
of unused amounts, the maximum carryover amount is 
$660. (See Revenue Procedure 2024–40.)
Distributions From an FSA
Generally, distributions from a health FSA must be paid 
only to reimburse you for qualified medical expenses you 
incurred during the period of coverage. Y ou must be able 
to receive the maximum amount of reimbursement (the 
amount you have elected to contribute for the year) at any 
time during the coverage period, regardless of the amount 
you have actually contributed. The maximum amount you 
can receive tax free is the total amount you elected to con-
tribute to the health FSA for the year.
Y ou must provide the health FSA with a written state-
ment from an independent third party stating that the med-
ical expense has been incurred and the amount of the ex-
pense. Y ou must also provide a written statement that the 
expense hasn’t been paid or reimbursed under any other 
health plan coverage. The FSA can’t make advance reim-
bursements of future or projected expenses.
Debit cards, credit cards, and stored value cards given 
to you by your employer can be used to reimburse partici-
pants in a health FSA. If the use of these cards meets cer-
tain substantiation methods, you may not have to provide 
additional information to the health FSA. For information 
on these methods, see Revenue Ruling 2003-43, 2003-21 
I.R.B. 935, available at IRS.gov/pub/irs-drop/rr-03-43.pdf; 
Notice 2006 -69, 2006 -31 I.R.B. 107, available at 
IRS.gov/irb/2006-31_IRB/ar10.html; and Notice 2007 -2, 
2007-2 I.R.B. 254, available at IRS.gov/irb/2007-02_IRB/
ar09.html.
Qualified medical expenses.  Qualified medical expen-
ses are those specified in the plan that would generally 
qualify for the medical and dental expenses deduction.
Expenses incurred for over -the-counter medicine 
(whether or not prescribed) and menstrual care products 
are considered medical care and are considered a cov-
ered expense.
Qualified medical expenses include those incurred by 
the following persons.
1. Y ou and your spouse.
2. All dependents you claim on your tax return.
3. Any person you could have claimed as a dependent 
on your return except that:
a. The person filed a joint return;
b. The person had gross income equal to or more 
than the exemption amount; or
c. Y ou, or your spouse if filing jointly, could be 
claimed as a dependent on someone else’s 2025 
return.
4. Y our child under age 27 at the end of your tax year.
Y ou can’t receive distributions from your FSA for the fol-
lowing expenses.
• Amounts paid for health insurance premiums.
• Amounts paid for long-term care.
• Amounts that are covered under another health plan.
If you are covered under both a health FSA and an HRA, 
see Notice 2002-45, Part V , 2002-28 I.R.B. 93, available at 
IRS.gov/pub/irs-drop/n-02-45.pdf.
Caution: Y ou can’t deduct qualified medical expenses 
as an itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) that 
are equal to the reimbursement you receive from the FSA.
Qualified reservist distribution.  A special rule allows 
amounts in a health FSA to be distributed to reservists or-
dered or called to active duty. This rule applies to distribu-
tions made after June 17, 2008, if the plan has been 
amended to allow these distributions. Y our employer must 
report the distribution as wages on your Form W -2 for the 
year in which the distribution is made. The distribution is 
subject to employment taxes and is included in your gross 
income.
A qualified reservist distribution is allowed if you were 
(because you were in the reserves) ordered or called to 
active duty for a period of more than 179 days or for an in-
definite period, and the distribution is made during the pe-
riod beginning on the date of the order or call and ending 
on the last date that reimbursements could otherwise be 
made for the plan year that includes the date of the order 
or call.
Balance in an FSA
FSAs are generally “use -it-or-lose-it” plans. This means 
that amounts in the account at the end of the plan year 
can’t generally be carried over to the next year. However, 
the plan can provide for either a grace period or a carry-
over.
The plan can provide for a grace period of up to 2 1/2 
months after the end of the plan year. If there is a grace 
period, any qualified medical expenses incurred in that 
period can be paid from any amounts left in the account at 
the end of the previous year. Y our employer isn’t permitted 
to refund any part of the balance to you.
Plans may allow up to $660 of unused amounts remain-
ing at the end of the plan year to be paid or reimbursed for 
qualified medical expenses you incur in the following plan 
year. The plan may specify a lower dollar amount as the 
maximum carryover amount. If the plan permits a carry-
over, any unused amounts in excess of the carryover 
amount are forfeited. The carryover doesn’t affect the 
maximum amount of salary reduction contributions that 
you are permitted to make.
16 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 17 of p969.pdf ---
Page 17 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
A plan adopting a carryover provision is not permitted 
to also provide a grace period with respect to health FSAs. 
(See Notice 2013–71.)
Employer Participation
For the health FSA to maintain tax -qualified status, em-
ployers must comply with certain requirements that apply 
to cafeteria plans. For example, there are restrictions for 
plans that cover highly compensated employees and key 
employees. The plans must also comply with rules appli-
cable to other accident and health plans. Pub. 15 -B, Em-
ployer’s T ax Guide to Fringe Benefits, explains these re-
quirements.
Health Reimbursement 
Arrangements (HRAs)
An HRA must be funded solely by an employer. The con-
tribution can’t be paid through a voluntary salary reduction 
agreement on the part of an employee. Employees are re-
imbursed tax free for qualified medical expenses up to a 
maximum dollar amount for a coverage period. An HRA 
may be offered with other health plans, including FSAs.
For information on the interaction between an HRA and 
an HSA, see Other employee health plans  under Qualify-
ing for an HSA, earlier.
What are the benefits of an HRA?  Y ou may enjoy sev-
eral benefits from having an HRA.
• Contributions made by your employer can be exclu-
ded from your gross income.
• Reimbursements, which must be for qualified medical 
expenses, are tax free.
• Any unused amounts in the HRA can be carried for-
ward for reimbursements in later years.
Qualifying for an HRA
HRAs are employer-established benefit plans. These may 
be offered in conjunction with other employer -provided 
health benefits. Employers have flexibility to offer various 
combinations of benefits in designing their plans.
Self-employed persons aren’t eligible for HRAs.
Caution: Certain limitations may apply if you are a 
highly compensated participant.
Contributions to an HRA
HRAs are funded solely through employer contributions 
and may not be funded through employee salary reduc-
tions under a cafeteria plan. These contributions aren’t in-
cluded in the employee’s income. Y ou don’t pay federal in-
come tax or employment taxes on amounts your employer 
contributes to the HRA.
Amount of Contribution
There is no limit on the amount of money your employer 
can contribute to the arrangements. Additionally, the maxi-
mum reimbursement amount credited under the HRA in 
the future (not including amounts carried forward from pre-
vious coverage periods) may be increased or decreased. 
See Balance in an HRA, later.
Distributions From an HRA
Generally, distributions from an HRA must be paid to reim-
burse you for qualified medical expenses you have incur-
red. The expense must have been incurred on or after the 
date you are enrolled in the HRA.
Debit cards, credit cards, and stored value cards given 
to you by your employer can be used to reimburse partici-
pants in an HRA. If the use of these cards meets certain 
substantiation methods, you may not have to provide addi-
tional information to the HRA. For information on these 
methods, see Revenue Ruling 2003 -43, 2003 -21 I.R.B. 
935, available at IRS.gov/pub/irs-drop/rr-03-43.pdf; Notice 
2006-69, 2006 -31 I.R.B. 107, available at IRS.gov/irb/
2006-31_IRB/ar10.html; and Notice 2007 -2, 2007-2 I.R.B. 
254, available at IRS.gov/irb/2007-02_IRB/ar09.html.
If any distribution is or can be made for other than the 
reimbursement of qualified medical expenses, any distri-
bution (including reimbursement of qualified medical ex-
penses) made in the current tax year is included in gross 
income. For example, if an unused reimbursement is pay-
able to you in cash at the end of the year or upon termina-
tion of your employment, any distribution from the HRA is 
included in your income. This also applies if any unused 
amount upon your death is payable in cash to your benefi-
ciary or estate or if the HRA provides an option for you to 
transfer any unused reimbursement at the end of the year 
to a retirement plan.
If the plan permits amounts to be paid as medical bene-
fits to a designated beneficiary (other than the employee’s 
spouse or dependents), any distribution from the HRA is 
included in income.
Reimbursements under an HRA can be made to the fol-
lowing persons.
1. Current and former employees.
2. Spouses and dependents of those employees.
3. Any person you could have claimed as a dependent 
on your return except that:
a. The person filed a joint return;
b. The person had gross income equal to or more 
than the exempt amount; or
c. Y ou or your spouse if filing jointly could be claimed 
as a dependent on someone else’s 2025 return.
4. Y our child under age 27 at the end of your tax year.
5. Spouses and dependents of deceased employees.
Publication 969 (2025) 17

--- PAGE 18 of p969.pdf ---
Page 18 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Tip: For this purpose, a child of parents that are di-
vorced, separated, or living apart for the last 6 months of 
the calendar year is treated as the dependent of both pa-
rents whether or not the custodial parent releases the 
claim to the child’s exemption.
Qualified medical expenses.  Qualified medical expen-
ses are those specified in the plan that would generally 
qualify for the medical and dental expenses deduction .
Expenses incurred for over -the-counter medicine 
(whether or not prescribed) and menstrual care products 
are considered medical care and are considered a cov-
ered expense.
Qualified medical expenses from your HRA include the 
following.
• Amounts paid for health insurance premiums.
• Amounts paid for long-term care coverage.
If you are covered under both an HRA and a health FSA, 
see Notice 2002 -45, Part V , which is available at 
IRS.gov/pub/irs-drop/n-02-45.pdf.
Caution: Y ou can’t deduct qualified medical expenses 
as an itemized deduction on Schedule A (Form 1040) that 
are equal to the distribution from the HRA.
Balance in an HRA
Some, but not all, HRAs permit amounts that remain at the 
end of the year to be carried to the next year. Y our em-
ployer isn’t permitted to refund any part of the balance to 
you. These amounts may never be used for anything but 
reimbursements for qualified medical expenses.
Employer Participation
For an HRA to maintain tax -qualified status, employers 
must comply with certain requirements that apply to other 
accident and health plans. Pub. 15 -B, Employer’s T ax 
Guide to Fringe Benefits, explains these requirements.
How To Get Tax Help
If you have questions about a tax issue; need help prepar-
ing your tax return; or want to download free publications, 
forms, or instructions, go to IRS.gov to find resources that 
can help you right away.
Tax reform.  T ax reform legislation impacting federal 
taxes, credits, and deductions was enacted in P .L. 119-21, 
commonly known as the One Big Beautiful Bill Act on July 
4, 2025. Go to IRS.gov/OBBB for more information and 
updates on how this legislation affects your taxes.
Preparing and filing your tax return.  After receiving all 
your wage and earnings statements (Forms W -2, W -2G, 
1099-R, 1099 -MISC, 1099 -NEC, etc.); unemployment 
compensation statements (by mail or in a digital format) or 
other government payment statements (Form 1099 -G); 
and interest, dividend, and retirement statements from 
banks and investment firms (Forms 1099), you have sev-
eral options to choose from to prepare and file your tax re-
turn. Y ou can prepare the tax return yourself, see if you 
qualify for free tax preparation, or hire a tax professional to 
prepare your return.
Free options for tax preparation.  Y our options for pre-
paring and filing your return online or in your local com-
munity, if you qualify, include the following.
• Free File. This program lets you prepare and file your 
federal individual income tax return for free using soft-
ware or Free File Fillable Forms. However, state tax 
preparation may not be available through Free File. Go 
to IRS.gov/FreeFile to see if you qualify for free online 
federal tax preparation, e-filing, and direct deposit or 
payment options.
• VITA. The Volunteer Income T ax Assistance (VITA) 
program offers free tax help to people with 
low-to-moderate incomes, persons with disabilities, 
and limited-English-speaking taxpayers who need 
help preparing their own tax returns. Go to IRS.gov/
VITA, download the free IRS2Go app, or call 
800-906-9887 for information on free tax return prepa-
ration.
• TCE. The T ax Counseling for the Elderly (TCE) pro-
gram offers free tax help for all taxpayers, particularly 
those who are 60 years of age and older. TCE volun-
teers specialize in answering questions about pen-
sions and retirement-related issues unique to seniors. 
Go to IRS.gov/TCE or download the free IRS2Go app 
for information on free tax return preparation.
• MilTax. Members of the U.S. Armed Forces and quali-
fied veterans may use MilT ax, a free tax service of-
fered by the Department of Defense through Military 
OneSource. For more information, go to 
MilitaryOneSource (MilitaryOneSource.mil/MilT ax).
Also, the IRS offers Free Fillable Forms, which can 
be completed online and then e -filed regardless of in-
come.
Using online tools to help prepare your return.  Go to 
IRS.gov/T ools for the following.
• The Earned Income T ax Credit Assistant (IRS.gov/
EITCAssistant) determines if you’re eligible for the 
earned income credit (EITC).
• The Online EIN Application (IRS.gov/EIN) helps you 
get an employer identification number (EIN) at no 
cost.
• The T ax Withholding Estimator (IRS.gov/W4App) 
makes it easier for you to estimate the federal income 
tax you want your employer to withhold from your pay-
check. This is tax withholding. See how your withhold-
ing affects your refund, take-home pay, or tax due.
• The Sales T ax Deduction Calculator (IRS.gov/
SalesT ax) figures the amount you can claim if you 
itemize deductions on Schedule A (Form 1040).
18 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 19 of p969.pdf ---
Page 19 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
Getting answers to your tax questions.  On 
IRS.gov, you can get up -to-date information on 
current events and changes in tax law.
• IRS.gov/Help: A variety of tools to help you get an-
swers to some of the most common tax questions.
• IRS.gov/ITA: The Interactive T ax Assistant, a tool that 
will ask you questions and, based on your input, pro-
vide answers on a number of tax topics.
• IRS.gov/Forms: Find forms, instructions, and publica-
tions. Y ou will find details on the most recent tax 
changes and interactive links to help you find answers 
to your questions.
• Y ou may also be able to access tax information in your 
e-filing software.
Need someone to prepare your tax return?  There are 
various types of tax return preparers, including enrolled 
agents, certified public accountants (CPAs), accountants, 
and many others who don’t have professional credentials. 
If you choose to have someone prepare your tax return, 
choose that preparer wisely. A paid tax preparer is:
• Primarily responsible for the overall substantive accu-
racy of your return,
• Required to sign the return, and
• Required to include their preparer tax identification 
number (PTIN).
Although the tax preparer always signs the return, 
you’re ultimately responsible for providing all the 
information required for the preparer to accurately 
prepare your return and for the accuracy of every item re-
ported on the return. Anyone paid to prepare tax returns 
for others should have a thorough understanding of tax 
matters. For more information on how to choose a tax pre-
parer, go to Tips for Choosing a T ax Preparer on IRS.gov.
Employers can register to use Business Services On-
line. The Social Security Administration (SSA) offers on-
line service at SSA.gov/employer for fast, free, and secure 
W-2 filing options to CPAs, accountants, enrolled agents, 
and individuals who process Form W -2, Wage and T ax 
Statement; and Form W -2c, Corrected Wage and T ax 
Statement.
Business tax account.  If you are a sole proprietor, a 
partnership, an S corporation, a C corporation, or a sin-
gle-member limited liability company (LLC), you can view 
your tax information on record with the IRS and do more 
with a business tax account. Go to IRS.gov/
BusinessAccount for more information.
IRS social media. Go to IRS.gov/SocialMedia to see the 
various social media tools the IRS uses to share the latest 
information on tax changes, scam alerts, initiatives, prod-
ucts, and services. At the IRS, privacy and security are our 
highest priority. We use these tools to share public infor-
mation with you. Don’t post your social security number 
(SSN) or other confidential information on social media 
CAUTION
!
sites. Always protect your identity when using any social 
networking site.
The following IRS Y ouT ube channels provide short, in-
formative videos on various tax -related topics in English 
and ASL.
• Y outube.com/irsvideos.
• Y outube.com/irsvideosASL.
Online tax information in other languages.  Y ou can 
find information on IRS.gov/MyLanguage if English isn’t 
your native language.
Over-the-Phone Interpreter (OPI) Service. The IRS of-
fers the OPI Service to taxpayers needing language inter-
pretation. The OPI Service is available at T axpayer Assis-
tance Centers (TACs), most IRS offices, and every 
VITA/TCE tax return site. This service is available in Span-
ish, Mandarin, Cantonese, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, 
and Haitian Creole.
Accessibility Helpline available for taxpayers with 
disabilities. T axpayers who need information about ac-
cessibility services can call 833 -690-0598. The Accessi-
bility Helpline can answer questions related to current and 
future accessibility products and services available in al-
ternative media formats (for example, braille -ready, large 
print, audio, etc.). The Accessibility Helpline does not 
have access to your IRS account. For help with tax law, re-
funds, or account -related issues, go to IRS.gov/
LetUsHelp.
Alternative media preference.  Form 9000, Alternative 
Media Preference, or Form 9000(SP) allows you to elect to 
receive certain types of written correspondence in the fol-
lowing formats.
• Standard Print.
• Large Print.
• Braille.
• Audio (MP3).
• Plain T ext File (TXT).
• Braille-Ready File (BRF).
Disasters. Go to IRS.gov/DisasterRelief to review the 
available disaster tax relief.
Getting tax forms and publications.  Go to IRS.gov/
Forms to view, download, or print all the forms, instruc-
tions, and publications you may need. Or, you can go to 
IRS.gov/OrderForms to place an order.
Mobile-friendly forms.  Y ou’ll need an IRS Online Ac-
count (OLA) to complete mobile-friendly forms that require 
signatures. Y ou’ll have the option to submit your form(s) 
online or download a copy for mailing. Y ou’ll need scans of 
your documents to support your submission. Go to 
IRS.gov/MobileFriendlyForms for more information.
Getting tax publications and instructions in eBook 
format. Download and view most tax publications and 
Publication 969 (2025) 19

--- PAGE 20 of p969.pdf ---
Page 20 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
instructions (including the Instructions for Form 1040) on 
mobile devices as eBooks at IRS.gov/eBooks.
IRS eBooks have been tested using Apple’s iBooks for 
iPad. Our eBooks haven’t been tested on other dedicated 
eBook readers, and eBook functionality may not operate 
as intended.
Access your online account (individual taxpayers 
only). Go to IRS.gov/Account to securely access infor-
mation about your federal tax account.
• View the amount you owe and a breakdown by tax 
year.
• See payment plan details or apply for a new payment 
plan.
• Make a payment or view 5 years of payment history 
and any pending or scheduled payments.
• Access your tax records, including key data from your 
most recent tax return, and transcripts.
• View digital copies of select notices from the IRS.
• Approve or reject authorization requests from tax pro-
fessionals.
Get a transcript of your return. With an online account, 
you can access a variety of information to help you during 
the filing season. Y ou can get a transcript, review your 
most recently filed tax return, and get your adjusted gross 
income. Create or access your online account at IRS.gov/
Account.
Tax Pro Account.  This tool lets your tax professional 
submit an authorization request to access your individual 
taxpayer IRS OLA. For more information, go to IRS.gov/
T axProAccount.
Using direct deposit.  The safest and easiest way to re-
ceive a tax refund is to e-file and choose direct deposit, 
which securely and electronically transfers your refund di-
rectly into your financial account. Direct deposit also 
avoids the possibility that your check could be lost, stolen, 
destroyed, or returned undeliverable to the IRS. Eight in 
10 taxpayers use direct deposit to receive their refunds. If 
you don’t have a bank account, go to IRS.gov/
DirectDeposit for more information on where to find a bank 
or credit union that can open an account online.
Reporting and resolving your tax -related identity 
theft issues. 
• T ax-related identity theft happens when someone 
steals your personal information to commit tax fraud. 
Y our taxes can be affected if your SSN is used to file a 
fraudulent return or to claim a refund or credit.
• The IRS doesn’t initiate contact with taxpayers by 
email, text messages (including shortened links), tele-
phone calls, or social media channels to request or 
verify personal or financial information. This includes 
requests for personal identification numbers (PINs), 
passwords, or similar information for credit cards, 
banks, or other financial accounts.
• Go to IRS.gov/IdentityTheft, the IRS Identity Theft 
Central webpage, for information on identity theft and 
data security protection for taxpayers, tax professio-
nals, and businesses. If your SSN has been lost or 
stolen or you suspect you’re a victim of tax-related 
identity theft, you can learn what steps you should 
take.
• Get an Identity Protection PIN (IP PIN). IP PINs are 
six-digit numbers assigned to taxpayers to help pre-
vent the misuse of their SSNs on fraudulent federal in-
come tax returns. When you have an IP PIN, it pre-
vents someone else from filing a tax return with your 
SSN. T o learn more, go to IRS.gov/IPPIN.
Ways to check on the status of your refund. 
• Go to IRS.gov/Refunds.
• Download the official IRS2Go app to your mobile de-
vice to check your refund status.
• Call the automated refund hotline at 800-829-1954.
The IRS can’t issue refunds before mid -February 
for returns that claimed the EITC or the additional 
child tax credit (ACTC). This applies to the entire 
refund, not just the portion associated with these credits.
Making a tax payment.  The IRS recommends paying 
electronically whenever possible. Options to pay electroni-
cally are included in the list below. Payments of U.S. tax 
must be remitted to the IRS in U.S. dollars. Digital assets 
are not accepted. Go to IRS.gov/Payments for information 
on how to make a payment using any of the following op-
tions.
• IRS Direct Pay: Pay taxes from your bank account. It’s 
free and secure, and no sign-in is required. Y ou can 
change or cancel within 2 days of scheduled payment.
• Debit Card, Credit Card, or Digital Wallet: Choose an 
approved payment processor to pay online or by 
phone.
• Electronic Funds Withdrawal: Schedule a payment 
when filing your federal taxes using tax return prepara-
tion software or through a tax professional.
• Electronic Federal T ax Payment System: This is the 
best option for businesses. Enrollment is required.
• Check or Money Order: Mail your payment to the ad-
dress listed on the notice or instructions.
• Cash: Y ou may be able to pay your taxes with cash at 
a participating retail store.
• Same-Day Wire: Y ou may be able to do same-day 
wire from your financial institution. Contact your finan-
cial institution for availability, cost, and time frames.
Note: The IRS uses the latest encryption technology to 
ensure that the electronic payments you make online, by 
phone, or from a mobile device using the IRS2Go app are 
safe and secure. Paying electronically is quick and easy.
CAUTION
!
20 Publication 969 (2025)

--- PAGE 21 of p969.pdf ---
Page 21 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
What if I can’t pay now?  Go to IRS.gov/Payments for 
more information about your options.
• Apply for an online payment agreement (IRS.gov/
OPA) to meet your tax obligation in monthly install-
ments if you can’t pay your taxes in full today. Once 
you complete the online process, you will receive im-
mediate notification of whether your agreement has 
been approved.
• Use the Offer in Compromise Pre-Qualifier to see if 
you can settle your tax debt for less than the full 
amount you owe. For more information on the Offer in 
Compromise program, go to IRS.gov/OIC.
Filing an amended return.  Go to IRS.gov/Form1040X 
for information and updates.
Checking the status of your amended return.  Go to 
IRS.gov/WMAR to track the status of Form 1040 -X amen-
ded returns.
It can take up to 3 weeks from the date you filed 
your amended return for it to show up in our sys-
tem, and processing it can take up to 16 weeks.
Understanding an IRS notice or letter you’ve re-
ceived. Go to IRS.gov/Notices to find additional informa-
tion about responding to an IRS notice or letter.
IRS Document Upload Tool.  Y ou may be able to use 
the Document Upload T ool to respond digitally to eligible 
IRS notices and letters by securely uploading required 
documents online through IRS.gov. For more information, 
go to IRS.gov/DUT.
Schedule LEP . Y ou can use Schedule LEP (Form 1040), 
Request for Change in Language Preference, to state a 
preference to receive notices, letters, or other written com-
munications from the IRS in an alternative language. Y ou 
may not immediately receive written communications in 
the requested language. The IRS’s commitment to LEP 
taxpayers is part of a multi -year timeline that began pro-
viding translations in 2023. Y ou will continue to receive 
communications, including notices and letters, in English 
until they are translated to your preferred language.
Contacting your local TAC.  Keep in mind, many ques-
tions can be answered on IRS.gov without visiting a TAC. 
Go to IRS.gov/LetUsHelp for the topics people ask about 
most. If you still need help, TACs provide tax help when a 
tax issue can’t be handled online or by phone. All TACs 
now provide service by appointment, so you’ll know in ad-
vance that you can get the service you need without long 
wait times. Before you visit, go to IRS.gov/TACLocator to 
find the nearest TAC and to check hours, available serv-
ices, and appointment options. Or, on the IRS2Go app, 
under the Stay Connected tab, choose the Contact Us op-
tion and click on “Local Offices.”
————————————————————————
Below is a message to you from the T axpayer Advocate 
Service, an independent organization established by Con-
gress.
CAUTION
!
The Taxpayer Advocate Service (TAS) 
Is Here To Help You
What Is the Taxpayer Advocate Service?
The T axpayer Advocate Service (TAS) is an independent 
organization within the Internal Revenue Service (IRS). 
TAS helps taxpayers resolve problems with the IRS, 
makes administrative and legislative recommendations to 
prevent or correct the problems, and protects taxpayer 
rights. We work to ensure that every taxpayer is treated 
fairly and that you know and understand your rights under 
the T axpayer Bill of Rights. We are Y our Voice at the IRS.
How Can TAS Help Me?
TAS can help you resolve problems that you haven’t been 
able to resolve with the IRS on your own. Always try to re-
solve your problem with the IRS first, but if you can’t, then 
come to TAS. Our services are free.
• TAS helps all taxpayers (and their representatives), in-
cluding individuals, businesses, and exempt organiza-
tions. Y ou may be eligible for TAS help if your IRS 
problem is causing financial difficulty, if you’ve tried 
and been unable to resolve your issue with the IRS, or 
if you believe an IRS system, process, or procedure 
just isn’t working as it should.
• T o get help any time with general tax topics, visit 
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov. The site can help 
you with common tax issues and situations, such as 
what to do if you make a mistake on your return or if 
you get a notice from the IRS.
• TAS works to resolve large-scale (systemic) problems 
that affect many taxpayers. Y ou can report systemic is-
sues at www.IRS.gov/SAMS. (Be sure not to include 
any personal identifiable information.)
How Do I Contact TAS?
TAS has offices in every state, the District of Columbia, 
and Puerto Rico. T o find your local advocate’s number:
• Go to www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/Contact-Us,
• Check your local directory, or
• Call TAS toll free at 877-777-4778.
What Are My Rights as a Taxpayer?
The T axpayer Bill of Rights describes ten basic rights that 
all taxpayers have when dealing with the IRS. Go to 
www.T axpayerAdvocate.IRS.gov/T axpayer-Rights for 
more information about the rights, what they mean to you, 
and how they apply to specific situations you may encoun-
ter with the IRS. TAS strives to protect taxpayer rights and 
ensure the IRS is administering the tax law in a fair and 
equitable way.
Publication 969 (2025) 21

--- PAGE 22 of p969.pdf ---
Page 22 of 22  Fileid: … cation-969/2025/a/xml/cycle08/source 13:42 - 11-Feb-2026
The type and rule above prints on all proofs including departmental reproduction proofs. MUST be removed before printing.
T o help us develop a more useful index, please let us know if you have ideas for index entries.
See “Comments and Suggestions” in the “Introduction” for the ways you can reach us.
Index 
A
Archer MSAs 11-15
Assistance (See T ax help)
C
Contributions to:
FSA 15
HRA 17
HSA 5
MSA 12
D
Death of:
HSA holder 10
MSA holder 14
Distributions from:
FSA 16
HRA 17
HSA 8
MSA 13
E
Employer participation:
FSA 17
HRA 18
HSA 10
MSA 14
F
Flexible spending 
arrangements 15-17
Balance in 16
Contributions to 15
Distributions from 16
Grace period 16
Qualifying for 15
When to contribute 15
Form:
5329 8, 12
5498–SA 8, 12
8853 14
8889 8-10
H
Health plans, high deductible 3, 11
Health reimbursement 
arrangements 17, 18
Balance in 18
Contributions to 17
Distributions from 17
Qualifying for 17
Health savings accounts 3-11
Balance in 10
Contributions to 5
Deemed distributions 9
Distributions from 8
Last-month rule 5
Partnerships 8
Qualifying for 3
Rollovers 7
S corporations 8
When to contribute 7
High deductible health plan 3, 11
M
Medical expenses, qualified 8, 13, 
16, 18
Medical savings accounts 11-15
Balance in 14
Contributions to 12
Deemed distributions 13
Distributions from 13
Medicare Advantage MSAs 15
Qualifying for 11
When to contribute 12
Medicare Advantage MSAs 15
P
Preventive care 4
Publications (See T ax help)
Q
Qualified HSA funding 
distribution 7
T
Tax help 18
Testing period:
Last-month rule 5
Qualified HSA funding distribution 7
22 Publication 969 (2025)

